=== PAGE 1 ===
1


=== PAGE 2 ===
1
THE GRAY MERCHANT OF ASPHODEL
A
hunched figure appears in the distance on a
lonely road, gray ribbons of cloth fluttering
around him like wisps from a wraith.
Sunlight flickers off his mask and flashes a pattern
your mind wants to interpret as some sort of
distress signal, though you know it’s as
meaningless as the tapping of a tree branch on
your window.
This gray creature is a Returned and you know
they can be dangerous, but something about his
gait, his slow speed, the bag he carries over his
shoulder like a burden he can’t put down, tells
you he is not a threat. He emanates the dull,
aching sadness of one who has come to terms with
loss. Sure enough, as he gets closer, you see the
white petals of Asphodel pinned on his cloak.
You've heard of him—the Gray Merchant, a
wandering undead who trades with anyone, his
existence permitted by gods and mortals due to
the simple fact that he’s harmless. Asphodel is a
necropolis for the undead who wish to live their
second existence in peace, and while most don’t
leave its bounds, this one chose a different path.
His wares could be priceless or worthless—he
doesn’t care. When you offer him a gift, you
receive one in return. Curiosity overwhelms you,
and you slow as he passes by with that giant worn
bag over his shoulder. You may never get another
chance to discover what he carries. Sensing your
attention, he tilts his head and stops, that
sorrowful golden mask beckoning you closer.
A trail of gold coins marks where he has tread.
They fall from a hole in his bag. You point at it
and he repeats his inquiring head tilt. He doesn’t
care, and based on his glittering wake, he has
plenty of coins to lose. You wonder if this is all a
dream.
As you dig into your pockets for something
worthless to trade, you feel guilty. Are you taking
advantage of a lost soul? Will the gods punish you
for disrespecting the dead? A Returned is a
creature powerful enough to defy fate and return
from the Underworld—is too good a deal perhaps
a trap? Rather than “gift” him more coins that
don’t even glitter, you find yourself reaching for a
carving you've carried since you were a child. It’s
a small thing you made with your own hands, but
it’s precious to you and somehow that feels right.
The Gray Merchant of Asphodel senses your
intentions and begins drawing items from his bag.
He unfurls the sash that was fluttering in the wind
and lays it across the dusty ground so he may
present the items unsullied. His movements are
like clockwork, rigid but practiced, and soon there
are seven artifacts before you. As you examine
them, he raises a single finger: you may trade for
only one.
The objects vary in size and beauty and that
intangible property of presence, but all of them
have a story behind them, same as the carving you
will soon trade away. Which will you choose, and
what will it do?


=== PAGE 3 ===
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction...........................3
Chapter 1: Encountering The
Gray Merchant......................4
Number of Items for Trade ...4
The Price of a Trade..............4
Item Types.............................5
Gray Merchant Coins............5
Background Lore ..................5
Stat Block and Combat .........6
Chapter 2: The Gray
Merchant’s Wares .................7
Adventurer’s Podium............7
Akroan Rocking Horse .........7
Alseid’s Gift..........................7
Anvilwrought Raptor ............7
Archon Armor.......................9
Archon Cape .........................9
Arrowhead Shard ..................9
Aspect Icons........................10
Deer Icon.......................... 10
Dolphin Icon .................... 10
Donkey Icon..................... 10
Dove Icon......................... 10
Gorgon Icon ..................... 11
Horse Icon........................ 11
Hydra Icon ....................... 11
Lamprey Icon .................. 11
Manticore Icon................. 12
Mongoose Icon................. 12
Owl Icon........................... 12
Peacock Icon.................... 12
Pig Icon............................ 13
Swan Icon......................... 13
Tortoise Icon .................... 13
Vulture Icon ..................... 13
Wolf Icon ......................... 13
Astral Cornucopia...............13
Bident of Thassa’s
Beloved ...............................14
Bidet of Thassa ...................15
Blade of Hubris...................15
Bountiful Lekythos .............15
Bow of Nylea’s Hunter .......15
Callaphe’s Compass............16
Cap of Authority .................17
Chapparal Grass..................17
Chorus Mask.......................17
Clay Owl.............................17
Conspirator’s Whistle .........18
Crown of Atris.....................18
Diary of Thrasios ................18
Dragon Teeth.......................18
Dust of Nyx.........................18
Entrancing Lyre................... 19
Euklisia of Ephara............... 19
Flamecast Wheel................. 19
Fleetfeather Sandals............ 19
Flint of Phenax.................... 19
Floating Driftwood.............. 20
Fragment of Anger.............. 20
Fragment of Joy .................. 20
Fragment of Misera............. 20
Fruit of Tizerus.................... 21
Funerary Mask .................... 22
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Gray Merchant .................... 22
Golden Funeral Mask of
Asphodel ............................. 22
Golden Funeral Mask of
Odunos................................ 22
Golden Funeral Masks of the
Phalanx................................ 23
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Pseudamma ......................... 23
Gray Merchant’s Gold Coin 23
Hammer of the Forged of
Purphoros............................ 24
Heliod’s Glory..................... 25
Iridescent Pearl Necklace.... 25
Iroan Pledge ........................ 25
Judgy Golden Apple............ 25
Karametran Sickle............... 26
Laurel Wreath...................... 26
Leonin Hairbrush ................ 26
Leonin Snare....................... 26
Lightning Diadem............... 26
Meletis Agora License ........ 27
Mirror of Alirios.................. 27
Mirror Shield....................... 27
Nyx Lotus............................ 27
Oreskos Heresy................... 28
Pharika’s Cure..................... 28
Pharika’s Libation Jar ......... 28
Phoenix Feather .................. 28
Potion of Paradox................ 28
Prowler’s Helm ................... 28
Pyxis of Pandemonium ....... 29
Quill of Ephara.................... 29
Ring of Anax....................... 29
Ring of Cymede.................. 30
Ring of Promised Reunion.. 30
Rings of Kynaios and Tiro.. 31
Rod of Gallia....................... 31
Rod of Keranos ................... 31
Sacrificial Knife .................. 32
Satyr’s Piloi......................... 32
Scarf of Athreos .................. 32
Scrap of Epic Poetry ........... 33
Setessan Joke Basket........... 33
Setessan Lasso .................... 34
Sigiled Starfish.................... 34
Skein of Skophos ................ 34
Sorrowful Lekythos ............ 35
Soul-Guide Lantern............. 35
Springleaf Drum.................. 35
Staff of Athreos ................... 35
Starlit Mantle ...................... 36
Strand of Arasta................... 36
Stubborn Boulder................ 37
Sun Spear ............................ 37
Tablet of Ostracism............. 39
Telescope............................. 39
Tendril of Arixmethes ......... 40
Three-Headed Collar........... 40
Traveler’s Amulet................ 41
Trickster’s Coin................... 41
Undying Asphodel .............. 41
Vapors of the Oracle............ 41
Vase of Tales ....................... 41
Veil of Favor ....................... 42
Warhorn of Mogis............... 42
Whip of Erebos’Agent........ 42
Wings of Hubris.................. 43
Witches’ Eye ....................... 43
Xebec of Kruphix................ 43
Yoke of Careful
Unburdening ....................... 44
Zephyr Saddle..................... 44
Chapter 3: Random Roll
Tables.....................................45
Gray Merchant Roll Tables. 45
Roll Tables by Rarity .......... 46
Random Reward Tables ...... 48
Credits...................................52


=== PAGE 4 ===
3
INTRODUCTION
T
his supplement introduces new loot inspired
by the Theros blocks of Magic: The
Gathering cards and Greek mythology. We
can’t duplicate Magic art here, but when an item
is inspired from a card, we provide a see card link.
It also presents The Gray Merchant of Asphodel
as a wandering trader and possible source of this
loot. You may add him to random encounters
tables or have him play a more predetermined role
in your story.
Chapter 1 of the supplement describes the Gray
Merchant, his background, and his mechanics.
Chapter 2 lists the new magic items he brings to
the game while chapter 3 provides roll tables to
determine what items he offers during an
encounter.
The mechanics in chapter 1 are an optional
recommendation for implementing the Gray
Merchant into your campaign as an exciting
random encounter. You may incorporate the magic
items from this supplement directly into your loot
tables rather than distribute them via the Gray
Merchant.
ADDITIONAL REFERENCES
This supplement references rules provided in the
Player's Handbook (PHB), Monster Manual
(MM) and the Dungeon Master's Guide (DMG).
Magic items appear in italics and monsters in
bold. If they are from a source book, we cite the
source book in parentheses afterward. If we don’t
cite a source book, the magic item or monster stat
block is from this supplement.
Some items may also appear in Mystic Odysseys
of Theros (MOoT), but we chose to include our
alternate take on them to provide options.
LEGAL NOTICES
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of
the Coast, Forgotten Realms, Ravenloft, Eberron,
the dragon ampersand, Ravnica, Theros, and all
other Wizards of the Coast product names, and
their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards
of the Coast in the USA and other countries.
This work contains material that is copyright
Wizards of the Coast and/or other authors. Such
material is used with permission under the
Community Content Agreement for Dungeon
Masters Guild.
All other original material in this work is
copyright 2020 by Grady Wang and The Gallant
Goblin and published under the Community
Content Agreement for Dungeon Masters Guild.
Necropolis of Asphodel


=== PAGE 5 ===
4
CHAPTER 1: ENCOUNTERING THE GRAY MERCHANT
T
he Gray Merchant is a unique vendor who
wanders Theros, seemingly at random.
Characters may trade for only one item from
him each time they encounter him. He trades with
one person at a time but is willing to trade with
any number of people during the encounter.
There’s an unlimited number of wares in his bag.
It may contain multiple of the same legendary
item, but artifacts should remain one-of-a-kind. It
is up to you what limitations or lack thereof you
put on the items available.
NUMBER OF ITEMS FOR TRADE
When someone expresses interest in trading with
the Gray Merchant, he lays a piece of cloth on the
ground to display his wares, presenting seven
items. If you think seven options are too many for
the group, reduce the number. You can use the roll
tables in chapter 3 to determine what items he
draws from his bag.
Each character may make only one trade. The
Gray Merchant only refreshes items he trades
away. He does not refresh all seven items unless
requested to do so.
If a character requests he refresh his entire
selection, he does so but reduces the number of
items offered by one. For example, the first
refresh request causes him to put away all seven
items and draw six new items. The second refresh
replaces the six items with five and so forth. This
reduced selection persists through all subsequent
trades.
If the Gray Merchant has only one item out,
asking him to refresh ends trading for everyone
present. He places the item back in his bag and
appears unable to draw anything else out. He
sadly shows his empty hands and departs.
Magic: The Gathering players may notice the
refresh rules follow the card draw and mulligan
rules at the start of a game.
THE PRICE OF A TRADE
This section provides optional mechanics for
using the Gray Merchant as a seller of magic
items. You may ignore this mechanic and use the
roll tables in chapter 3 to distribute the magic
items in a more conventional manner.
The items in this supplement use price ranges
based on rarity. Since the amount of gold earned
varies in each game, consider adjusting the prices
to suit your group. Some items may also be
overpowered for the level of your party, in which
case you may want to reroll an item of an
unsuitable rarity rather than make it available for
trade. This supplement roughly categorizes item
rarity by the following prices and recommended
power levels:
• Common: 0-100 gp, level 1+
• Uncommon: 100-1,000 gp, level 3+
• Rare: 1,000-10,000 gp, level 5+
• Very Rare: 10,000-100,000 gp, level 10+
• Legendary/Artifact: 100,000+ gp, level 15+
Characters may trade one of the following types
of items for an item from the Gray Merchant:
• any amount of currency
• any one inanimate object or set of related
inanimate objects
A set of related objects are items that a
reasonable person would consider thematically
linked, such as a set of jewelry or all the books
belonging to a series. Players may not pad the
value of a trade by trading multiple unrelated
objects as a set, such as a bejeweled idol plus a
magic scroll. Characters may not trade living
creatures or awakened items.
The value of a traded object may be based on
monetary value or sentimental value to the
character. For example, a character has a set of
books passed down to them from a long dead
parent. This set has a monetary value of 5 sp and
high sentimental value. The higher of the two
types of value applies during a trade. In this
example, the object is worth high sentimental
value. If it had been a random set of books bought
from a pawn shop with no sentimental value, the
object is worth 5 sp instead.
Sentimental value has only four possible values:
none, low, medium, and high. A clay mask taken
from the dead, or fragments of such clay masks,
are automatically considered high sentimental
value by the Gray Merchant regardless of its value
to the character trading it away (see the
“Background Lore” section in this chapter for
details about the character and his motivations).
If characters offer an item previously obtained
from the Gray Merchant, it’s worth the lowest
gold value listed in its recommended price and no
sentimental value, unless otherwise specified.
The Gray Merchant can’t speak and uses
gestures to communicate the exact recommended
monetary price range in copper, silver, or gold
pieces. If the item has no price, he shrugs. He
gives no hint as to the sentimental price of an
object. Divine intervention prevents stealing from
the Gray Merchant.


=== PAGE 6 ===
5
ITEM TYPES
There are three types of items in this supplement:
magic items, artifacts, and story items.
MAGIC ITEMS
Each magic item has two recommended prices:
monetary and sentimental. Its properties vary
depending on the price the character paid for it.
Characters always get the base properties of the
item.
If characters pay the recommended price, they
get additional properties described in a section
labeled with the keyword Paid.
If characters overpay, extra effects apply,
sometimes for only a limited period of time,
described in a section labeled with the keyword
Overpaid.
Characters know the base properties of an item
from handling it, but they must use the identify
spell or focus on an item over a short rest to know
its Paid and Overpaid properties. You decide if
the Gray Merchant allows characters to take a
short rest with an item prior to trading.
If using the items in this supplement as treasure
discovered in the open world, we recommend
using only their base and Paid properties.
ARTIFACTS
Artifacts are legendary magic items that are
unique, cause unique effects, and have an impact
on the story in terms of being an item of historical
significance or an item with the potential to shape
a campaign. They can’t be destroyed through
conventional means and may break rules that
normally apply to other magic items.
Artifacts are included in their own roll tables
because you may not wish to make these available
via a random trader. Most come with
recommended story hooks if you prefer to
integrate them into your campaign.
STORY ITEMS
Story items are typically items NPCs traded to the
Gray Merchant that were worth high sentimental
value to the NPC. These items use story as their
rarity and usually have no recommended price.
They are intended as story hooks for side quests.
Story items are included in their own roll tables
to avoid introducing unexpected side quests
unsuitable for a given campaign.
GRAY MERCHANT COINS
The Gray Merchant leaves a trail of gold coins
that fall from the bag he carries. See the Gray
Merchant’s gold coins item entry for details.
BACKGROUND LORE
The Gray Merchant is a Returned, a form of
undead. On Theros, souls go to the Underworld
when they die. Some particularly strong-willed
individuals try to return to the land of the living.
They may do so by forging golden masks to
replace the funereal clay masks placed on the
faces of the dead. There is a price, however—any
who would return from the Underworld must
leave their memories behind.
Despite losing their memories, the Returned may
pursue ingrained habits or routines without
knowing why. For example, a blacksmith may
return to his forge and attempt to continue making
wares for sale, and while he may succeed in
running the forge, he largely produces twisted
pieces of metal with no function. Such a fate is
depicted in a Magic story here: https://
magic.wizards.com/en/articles/archive/uncharted-
realms/asphodel-2013-12-11
Returned also lack the capacity to retain long-
term memories despite otherwise possessing the
intelligence and self-determination of any living
creature. As such, they live sad existences, unable
to establish any real connections.
They possess the same physical appearance as
when they died but usually have no face and can’t
speak. Their golden masks hide their lack of facial
features and tend to depict exaggerated emotions.
The emotions are usually sadness or anger, though
exceptions exist. They have strong sentimental
attachments to clay funeral masks, perhaps
because they know what they lost when they
traded their own for golden ones. Clay masks are
supposed to help the dead retain their memories
and identity in the Underworld.
Returned are generally considered dangerous
and attacked by the living when encountered—
their behavior can be erratic and they may
explode in fits of rage. Those who survive long
enough to try to find a new place in the world end
up congregating in two necropolises, or cities of
the dead. Asphodel houses those who have
embraced their fate and are content to live out the
rest of their shadowy existences in peace. They
typically stay within its boundaries and continue
to act out their old routines. Odunos is a more
aggressive necropolis where the Returned rage at
their fates and venture out to raid living
settlements.
The Gray Merchant is from Asphodel and
somewhere between myth and urban legend. He is
highly recognizable because of the large worn bag
he carries and the white asphodel flower he wears.
He thus escapes culling by those who would
otherwise slaughter any Returned they meet.


=== PAGE 7 ===
6
There are also whispers that he’s protected by the
gods, or at least one of the gods, for reasons
unknown to mortals. Perhaps he was one of their
lovers, or perhaps he’s an agent of one of their
numerous conspiracies.
Phenax, god of deception, is the usual patron of
the Returned, said to have been the first soul to
escape the Underworld, but Klothys, god of
destiny, also intervenes on the Gray Merchant's
behalf when someone wrongs him. That said,
Klothys frowns on all who violate rules of
hospitality against travelers.
STAT BLOCK AND COMBAT
The Gray Merchant's bag functions like a bag of
holding (DMG), but there is no known limit to the
quantity or size of items he can store within it.
Characters may attack the Gray Merchant of
Asphodel. He doesn’t fight back, instead
cowering from their blows. The pitiful sight
induces guilt in attackers. Attacks incur the
dismay of bystanders and may cause powerful
NPCs to intervene on the Gray Merchant’s behalf.
Killing the Gray Merchant causes his body and all
his equipment to dissolve into red embers that
fade into the earth. The Gray Merchant reforms
with all his equipment in another part of the world
and continues traveling. All characters who
participated in the attack lose attunement and
possession of any Gray Merchant's gold coins
they have and must roll on the Ill Fortunes of
Klothys table to determine the effect they will
suffer in the coming days.
GRAY MERCHANT OF ASPHODEL
Medium undead, neutral
Armor Class 8
Hit Points 30 (4d8 + 12)
Speed 30 .
STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA
16 (+3)
6 (-2)
20 (+5)
6 (-2)
8 (-1)
14 (+2)
Damage Immunies Poison
Condion Immunies Poisoned
Senses Truesight 60 ., Passive Percep!on 20
Languages understands all but can’t speak, communicates with gestures
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Protected by Fate. When the Gray Merchant drops to 0 hit points, all
creatures who a.acked him within the last hour lose a.unement and
possession of any Gray Merchant’s gold coins they have and must roll on
the Ill Fortunes of Klothys table to determine the effect they’ll suffer in
the coming days.
A
Cower. The Gray Merchant targets up to 5 hos!le creatures within 60
feet. The targets must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw
against this display of terrified confusion or take 4 (1d6) psychic damage.
I F	
  K
d8
Effect
1
Fate frowns upon you. For the next 1d10 days,
you die on two death saving throw failures
instead of three.
2
You feel a desperate need to prove yourself in
combat. For the next 1d10 days, you can’t use
your move action to leave the melee range of a
foe when engaged in combat.
3
Intense anxiety feels like strings wrapping ever
tighter around your chest. For the next 1d10
days, you suffer a -1 penalty to attack rolls and
disadvantage on rolls to maintain
concentration.
4
Your hubris makes you believe you’re better
than you are in truth. You suffer a -1 penalty to
ability checks for the next 1d10 days.
5
You feel sluggish, guilt weighing you down. For
the next 1d10 days, you have disadvantage on
all saving throws.
6
Word has spread of your offense against the
gods. For the next 1d10 days, merchants won’t
sell or trade you goods.
7
The truth shall set you free. For the next 1d10
days, you’re unable to lie.
8
For the next 1d10 days, an intangible and
invulnerable spirit donkey follows you
everywhere, observing silently but
judgmentally.
Sprig of Asphodel Flower


=== PAGE 8 ===
7
CHAPTER 2: THE GRAY MERCHANT’S WARES
I
tems are presented in alphabetical order. An
item's description gives the item's name, its
type, its rarity, and its properties. Not all items
are magical.
ADVENTURER’S PODIUM
Wondrous item, rare — see card
Price: 3,000-7,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This podium is an intricate pewter cauldron about
1 foot wide and 1 foot tall. You can use an action
to activate the podium by throwing diamond dust
worth 250 gp inside, which consumes the dust.
Activating the podium causes prismatic light to
erupt out of it and coalesce above it to show a
three-dimensional map of the terrain up to 100
feet in all horizontal directions around the
podium. The podium remains active for 1 minute
and can’t be moved during that time.
Paid. Dots appear on the map showing the
location of all creatures of size Small and larger
within 100 feet of the cauldron. The size of the
dots correlate to the size of the creatures, but the
dots give no other information about the creatures.
The location of the dots don’t update and remain
fixed where the creatures were when the podium
activated.
Overpaid. Sparkling motes appear on the map to
mark the locations of secret entrances and magical
wards.
AKROAN ROCKING HORSE
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 10-100 gp | low sentimentality
This rocking horse is the right size for a child to
ride and part of a mass-produced line of toys
commemorating a famous battle. Meletians in
particular enjoy telling the tale as a triumph of
intellect over force, describing how a crafty
general used a giant wooden horse to sneak
soldiers through an enemy gate.
Paid. This particular rocking horse has been
enchanted so that once a day, you can use an
action to set it on the ground and speak the
command word to transform it into a riding horse
(MM). The transformed horse rocks back and
forth when standing still. The horse transforms
back into a rocking horse after 20 minutes or
when it drops to 0 hit points.
Overpaid. The rocking horse transforms into a
warhorse (MM) instead of a riding horse.
ALSEID’S GIFT
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 25-200 gp | low sentimentality
This small plant grows 1 magical berry each day
at dawn if exposed to sunlight for at least 1 hour
the previous day. The plant can hold up to 10
berries before it stops growing new berries. The
berries remain good indefinitely if left on the
plant. Once harvested, the berries rot if not eaten
within 24 hours. A creature can use its action to
eat 1 berry. Eating a berry restores 1 hit point, and
the berry provides enough nourishment to sustain
a creature for 1 day. The plant dies if it doesn’t see
sunlight for 7 days.
Paid. The plant grows 1d6 magical berries each
day at dawn instead of 1 berry.
Overpaid. Eating a berry restores 5 hit points.
ANVILWROUGHT RAPTOR
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 500-1,000 gp | low sentimentality
The anvilwrought raptor (see stat block on next
page) is a bronze mechanical hawk that’s
surprisingly light for its size, standing two feet tall
with a wingspan of four feet but weighing only
three pounds. It hops lightly onto your hand like a
sparrow, talons digging in just enough to secure—
and hurt—but not enough to pierce skin. It
becomes still once it finds a position it likes,
almost a statue save for the clockwork-like turns
of its head as it surveys the surroundings.
Paid. You can command the raptor to guard a
location. As long as you remain within 120 feet of
it and until you end the command, the raptor
remains in the same spot. When a Small or larger
creature that wasn’t within 120 feet of it when you
gave the guard command comes within 120 feet
of it, the raptor starts screeching loudly.
Overpaid. Add the ability to record all sounds
the raptor hears for up to one minute as an option
for its Learn Program trait. Starting a new
recording or using Learn Program for a different
action erases the previous recording. When the
raptor has a sound recorded, the Execute Program
action causes the raptor to reproduce the last
recording in its entirety. The recording can’t be
interrupted and the owner can specify its volume,
from barely audible to the sound level of a
humanoid yelling.


=== PAGE 9 ===
8
ANVILWROUGHT RAPTOR
Small construct, unaligned
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 33 (6d6 + 12)
Speed 10 ., fly 60 .
STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA
6 (-2)
15 (+2)
14 (+2)
2 (-4)
13 (+1)
8 (-1)
Skills Percep!on +3
Damage Immunies poison, psychic
Condion Immunies charmed, exhaus!on, frightened, petrified,
poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ., Passive Percep!on 13
Languages understands all but can’t speak
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
First Strike. The raptor always surprises enemies at the start of combat.
Flyby. The raptor doesn’t provoke an opportunity a.ack when it flies out
of an enemy’s reach.
Learn Program. Any character can spend 30 minutes to program the
raptor to perform one type of simple ac!on that a bird could physically
perform, such as stow an item, retrieve an item, or manipulate an object
with its talons. The raptor can a.ack but can’t ac!vate magic items or
carry more than 10 pounds. The raptor can only know one program at a
!me.
Imprint. The raptor imprints on one character as its owner. It only
performs ac!ons commanded by its owner. The owner can
communicate commands verbally or visually. If there are no outstanding
commands, it flies back to its owner.
A
Mulaack. The raptor makes two a.acks: one with its beak and one
with its claws.
Beak. Melee Weapon Aack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ., one target. Hit: 6 (1d8
+ 2) piercing damage.
Talons. Melee Weapon A.ack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ., one target. Hit: 5
(1d6 + 2) slashing damage.
Execute Program. Upon command by its owner, the raptor performs the
ac!on set by Learn Program.


=== PAGE 10 ===
9
ARCHON ARMOR
Armor (plate), very rare (requires attunement by a
creature that doesn’t worship any Theran god) —
see card
Price: 90,000-105,000 gp | medium
sentimentality
This burnished plate armor looks as though
someone might have polished it today, but its
menacing aura marks it as having been crafted by
archons, celestial beings who long ago ruled
Theros as tyrants and continue to claim they serve
a purpose higher than the gods.
Ancestral Rage. The sight of the armor triggers
inherited instincts that drive Therans into reckless
action. While you wear the armor, humanoids
have advantage on melee attacks against you.
Until the start of their next turn, you have
advantage against humanoids that have made
melee attacks against you.
Paid. You gain the following attributes when
wearing the armor:
Dexterous Defense. You add your Dexterity
modifier to your AC against melee attacks.
Authoritative Presence. You gain a +3 bonus to
Charisma (Intimidation) checks but suffer a -3
penalty to Charisma (Persuasion) checks.
Overpaid. While you wear the armor, you have
advantage on Charisma checks against archons.
ARCHON CAPE
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement except
by creatures attuned to archon armor) — see card
Price: 8,000-8,500 gp | medium sentimentality
This cape was worn by an archon tyrant of old but
looks new as the day it came off the loom. While
you wear the cape, you can change its color at
will. When you feel righteous, it billows upward
like you are falling.
Paid. While you wear the cape, you don't take
falling damage.
Overpaid. While you wear the cape, you can
hover up to 1 foot in the air when you feel
righteous.
ARROWHEAD SHARD
Story, legendary
Price: none | no sentimentality
This metal shard appears to be part of an
arrowhead. It hums with divine energy. You guess
there are four other such shards in existence,
assuming the other shards are similar sizes. The
first time you touch the shard, you hear maniacal
laughter in your head and must succeed a DC 16
Charisma saving throw or suffer a short-term
madness effect (see “Madness” in DMG chapter
8).
Paid. Upon further investigation, you realize this
shard belongs to the arrowhead that slew
Xenagos, god of revels. The arrowhead is said to
have shattered into countless pieces, but it is
clearly reforming, perhaps under the influence of
what essence remains of Xenagos. Should all the
pieces reassemble, the arrowhead could be used as
the focus of a revelrous ceremony that resurrects
the fallen god. Remaining adherents of Xenagos
or creatures seeking to overthrow the current
pantheon would go to any length to recover it
from you. If you attempt to reassemble the
arrowhead, you’ll become the enemy of every
Theran god except Kruphix, Erebos, Athreos, and
Mogis. If you attempt to destroy the arrowhead
for good, you will find allies in Nylea and
Purphoros, but Heliod will fear you and distrust
your intentions.
Overpaid. Klothys, god of destiny, whispers a
warning in your ear—bring the shard to her or
she’ll arrange for you to join her permanently in
the Underworld. You realize that a god of destiny
wouldn’t need to threaten you if she still
controlled your fate. Perhaps because Xenagos
was a god, what you do with this arrowhead is
beyond her reach.
Archon Armor
and Cape


=== PAGE 11 ===
10
ASPECT ICONS
Wondrous item, rarity by icon (requires
attunement)
An aspect icon is a beast statuette small enough
to fit in a pocket. While you carry the icon, you
can use an action to use the icon to gain the aspect
of the depicted beast. You gain abilities specific to
the aspect for a certain duration, and once used,
the icon can't be used again until a certain amount
of time has passed, as specified in the icon's
description.
DEER ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 200-800 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is a birch wood statuette of a running
deer. It can grant Aspect of Deer for 12 seconds (2
rounds). Once it has been used, it can't be used
again until 2 days have passed.
Aspect of Deer. Soft downy fur covers your
body and you sprout a bushy white tail. You
double your speed and the distance you can jump.
Paid. The icon doesn't require attunement.
Overpaid. Aspect of Deer lasts 1 minute instead
of 12 seconds.
DOLPHIN ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is a sapphire crystal statuette of a
swimming dolphin and has shimmering light ray
effects inside. It can grant Aspect of Dolphin for
12 hours. Once it has been used, it can't be used
again until 10 days have passed.
Aspect of Dolphin. You feel your lungs expand
and ethereal flippers appear around your hands
and feet when you swim. You gain a swimming
speed of 60 feet and can hold your breath for 10
minutes.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 5 days,
instead of 10 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Dolphin lasts 24 hours
instead of 12 hours.
DONKEY ICON (Rare)
Price: 8,000-10,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This icon is an iron statuette of a walking donkey
and feels hot to the touch. It can grant Aspect of
Donkey for 1 minute. Once it has been used, it
can't be used again until 7 days have passed.
Aspect of Donkey. Your Strength and
Constitution scores increase by 2, and your
stubbornness makes you immune to being
charmed, frightened, or knocked prone.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 2 days,
instead of 7 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Donkey lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
DOVE ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is a quartz crystal statuette of a flying
dove and is filled with swirling white clouds
resembling foam. It can grant Aspect of Dove for
10 minutes. Once it has been used, it can't be used
again until 5 days have passed.
Aspect of Dove. You look more beautiful in
some intangible way and soft cooing accompanies
your voice. You become the center of attention for
anyone within 60 feet of you, drawing their eyes
and giving allies advantage on any Dexterity
(Stealth) checks they make. You have advantage
when making Charisma checks.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 3 days,
instead of 5 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Dove lasts 1 hour instead of
10 minutes.
Deer Icon
Dolphin Icon
Donkey Icon
Dove Icon
Gorgon Icon


=== PAGE 12 ===
11
GORGON ICON (Very Rare)
Price: 20,000-50,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This icon is a serpentine statuette of a gorgon. The
snakes seem to move if you examine them closely.
It can grant Aspect of Gorgon for 1 minute. Once
it has been used, it can't be used again until 5 days
have passed.
Aspect of Gorgon. Anyone within 60 feet of you
hears snakes hissing and your hair seems to take
on a life of its own, rearing up like angry serpents.
As an action, you can fix your gaze on one
creature within 60 feet of you that you can see and
that can see your eyes. The target must make a
DC 14 Constitution saving throw. If the saving
throw succeeds, the creature is immune to your
gaze for 24 hours. If the saving throw fails by 5 or
more, the creature is instantly petrified.
Otherwise, a creature that fails the save begins to
turn to stone and is restrained. The restrained
creature must repeat the saving throw at the end of
its next turn, becoming petrified on a failure or
ending the effect on a success. The petrification
lasts until the creature is freed by a greater
restoration spell or similar magic.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 2 days,
instead of 5 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Gorgon lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
HORSE ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is a moonstone statuette of a horse
rearing up on its hind legs. It can grant Aspect of
Horse for 1 minute. Once it has been used, it can't
be used again until 6 days have passed.
Aspect of Horse. Your feet transform into
hooves and are considered a magic natural
weapon. You can use an action to kick a creature
as a melee attack. On a hit, the target suffers 2d4
bludgeoning damage and if the creature is Large
size or smaller, it’s knocked back 5 feet and must
succeed a DC 14 Strength saving throw or fall
prone. You deal double damage to objects and
structures.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 3 days,
instead of 6 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Horse lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
HYDRA ICON (Very Rare)
Price: 30,000-60,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This icon is a sandstone statuette of a hydra with
five heads. Red swirls within its grain seem to
divide and grow if you examine them closely. It
can grant Aspect of Hydra for 10 minutes. Once it
has been used, it can't be used again until 5 days
have passed.
Aspect of Hydra. Your form seems to split into
multiple transparent copies, as though someone is
looking at you without focusing their eyes on you.
If you suffer damage equal to or greater than a
fifth of your maximum hit points during a
creature's turn, you can use a reaction to regain all
hit points you lost at the end of that creature’s turn
unless you suffered fire damage during that turn.
You are vulnerable to fire damage.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 2 days,
instead of 5 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Hydra lasts 1 hour instead
of 10 minutes.
LAMPREY ICON (Very Rare)
Price: 10,000-45,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This icon is a white marble statuette of a lamprey
with pulsing red veins. It can grant Aspect of
Lamprey for 1 minute. Once it has been used, it
can't be used again until 4 days have passed.
Aspect of Lamprey. Your mouth transforms into
a lamprey's mouth, complete with hooked teeth.
You have advantage on attempts to grapple
creatures and can grapple creatures of any size.
Upon a successful grapple, the creature is
paralyzed for one round while you sink your teeth
Horse Icon
Hydra Icon
Pig Icon
Swan Icon
Lamprey Icon


=== PAGE 13 ===
12
into the creature and drink its blood. The DM
chooses one feature from the creature's stat block
for you to acquire and use for the aspect's
remaining duration. If you’ve already acquired a
feature, you lose your current feature when you
acquire a new one.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 24 hours,
instead of 4 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Lamprey lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
MANTICORE ICON (Very Rare)
Price: 18,000-40,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This icon is an obsidian statuette of a manticore.
The spikes on its tail seem to twitch if you
examine them closely. It can grant Aspect of
Manticore for 10 minutes. Once it has been used,
it can't be used again until 4 days have passed.
Aspect of Manticore. Leathery wings sprout
from your back and a spiked tail emerges from
your tailbone. Your Strength score increases by 5
and you gain a flying speed of 50 feet. You can
attack with the spiked tail in addition to your
actions, choosing one of the two following
actions: launch a spike as a ranged attack, dealing
1d8 piercing damage on hit, or swipe your tail as a
melee attack, dealing 1d6 slashing and 1d8
piercing damage on hit.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 2 days,
instead of 4 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Manticore lasts 1 hour
instead of 10 minutes.
MONGOOSE ICON (Legendary)
Price: 200,000-500,000 gp | high sentimentality
This icon is an ethereal statuette of swirling mists
that resemble a dashing mongoose, though it feels
solid and cold to the touch. It can grant Aspect of
Mongoose for 1 minute. Once it has been used, it
can't be used again until 6 days have passed.
Aspect of Mongoose. Your form elongates and
you look sleek and transparent. You are immune
to all spell effects.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 3 days,
instead of 6 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Mongoose lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
OWL ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 200-750 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is an oak wood statuette of a perched
owl. It can grant Aspect of Owl for 1 hour. Once it
has been used, it can't be used again until 24 hours
have passed.
Aspect of Owl. Your eyes become wider and
rounder. You have darkvision out to a range of 60
feet. If you already have darkvision, its range
increases 60 feet. You have advantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Paid. The icon doesn't require attunement.
Overpaid. Aspect of Owl lasts 2 hours instead of
1 hour.
PEACOCK ICON (Rare)
Price: 2,000-3,500 gp | medium sentimentality
This icon is a metal statuette made from some
unknown alloy that gives it an iridescent, rainbow
effect, and its form is of a male peacock with
feathers raised. It can grant Aspect of Peacock for
3 hours. Once it has been used, it can't be used
again until 3 days have passed.
Aspect of Peacock. You’re able to see in all
directions and have advantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. This effect
persists even if you are asleep or unconscious
unless you use a bonus action to disable this
effect.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 2 days,
instead of 3 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Peacock lasts 6 hours
instead of 3 hours.
Tortoise Icon
Peacock Icon
Mongoose
Icon
Owl Icon
Manticore Icon


=== PAGE 14 ===
13
PIG ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is a cherry wood statuette of a pig
rooting for food. It can grant Aspect of Pig for 1
hour. Once it has been used, it can't be used again
until 3 days have passed.
Aspect of Pig. Your nose turns into a pig's snout
and anything edible smells and tastes appetizing.
You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception)
checks that rely on smell and are resistant to
poison damage. You’re immune to the poisoned
condition.
Paid. The icon doesn't require attunement.
Overpaid. Aspect of Pig lasts 4 hours instead of
1 hour.
SWAN ICON (Rare)
Price: 2,000-3,500 gp | medium sentimentality
This icon is a tin statuette of a swan with wings
outstretched, ready to attack. It can grant Aspect
of Swan for 1 minute. Once it has been used, it
can't be used again until 5 days have passed.
Aspect of Swan. You appear to grow feathers
and your neck elongates, becoming a swan hybrid
abomination. Two wings sprout from your back
that you can use to make two unarmed strikes as
your bonus action. If both strikes hit, your target
must succeed a DC 20 Constitution saving throw
or fall prone. You can use an action to let out a
terrifying swan call, and all creatures within 120
feet of you who can hear you must succeed a DC
20 Charisma saving throw or become frightened
of you. A frightened creature can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
frightened condition on itself on a success. If a
target’s saving throw is successful or the effect
ends for it, the creature is immune to your swan
call for the next 24 hours.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 3 days,
instead of 5 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Swan lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
TORTOISE ICON (Rare)
Price: 2,000-3,500 gp | medium sentimentality
This copper statuette is shaped like a turtle. It can
grant Aspect of Turtle for 1 minute. Once it has
been used, it can't be used again until 7 days have
passed.
Aspect of Turtle. The clothing you’re wearing
gains the coloration and texture of a turtle's shell.
You can use an action to target one creature you
saw within the last round (6 seconds) and choose
whether you want the creature to fall unconscious
or have its speed halved. The target must succeed
a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or succumb to the
chosen effect for 5 rounds (30 seconds) or until
they take damage.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 4 days,
instead of 7 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Turtle lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
VULTURE ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is a bronze statuette of a vulture with its
wings outstretched. It can grant Aspect of Vulture
for 10 minutes. Once it has been used, it can't be
used again until 24 hours have passed.
Aspect of Vulture. Your mouth and nose
transform into a vulture's beak. When a creature
drops to 0 hit points within 120 feet of you, you
can use your reaction to devour their fleeing life
essence, regaining 2d8 hit points up to your hit
point maximum. If you use this reaction on a
creature that can make death saving throws, the
creature suffers 1 death saving throw failure.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 12 hours,
instead of 24 hours.
Overpaid. Aspect of Vulture lasts 1 hour instead
of 10 minutes.
WOLF ICON (Uncommon)
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
This icon is a silver statuette of a howling wolf. It
can grant Aspect of Wolf for 1 minute. Once it has
been used, it can't be used again until 4 days have
passed.
Aspect of Wolf. You can use an action to howl,
granting up to 6 allies Pack Tactics until the end
of your next turn. Pack Tactics grants you and
your allies advantage on attack rolls against a
creature if at least one ally is within 5 feet of the
creature and the ally isn’t incapacitated.
Paid. The icon can be used again after 2 days,
instead of 4 days.
Overpaid. Aspect of Wolf lasts 10 minutes
instead of 1 minute.
ASTRAL CORNUCOPIA
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 200-800 gp | low sentimentality
This cornucopia is 2 feet long, weighs 20 pounds,
and appears to be carved from a rock that fell
from the sky. Inside is an endless star field that
seems to be a view into Nyx.
You can place up to 5 nonliving perishable
sacrifices meant for the gods inside, such as cuts


=== PAGE 15 ===
14
of meat, fruits and vegetables. You can't put
anything not intended as a sacrifice for the gods
inside. Items placed inside the cornucopia
disappear and stay fresh, as though frozen in time,
until you remove them again. You can remove
items by thinking about the item you want when
you reach inside. When you remove the sacrifice,
you must either perform the intended sacrificial
ritual or return the sacrifice into the cornucopia
within 2 hours or the sacrifice catches fire and
burns to ash.
Paid. Sacrifices that have been inside the
cornucopia at least 24 hours curry great favor
when offered to gods and their followers—for 2
hours after you complete a sacrificial ritual, you
gain a +10 bonus to skill checks involving social
interactions with the god or the god's followers.
Overpaid. Closer examination of the star field
within the cornucopia reveals a distant scene of a
temple atop a waterfall plummeting into oblivion.
You can check the constellations inside the
cornucopia to determine the location of the
Temple of Mystery, which is on the edge of the
world and belongs to Kruphix, god of horizons.
BIDENT OF THASSA’S BELOVED
Weapon (trident), artifact (requires attunement by
a creature that worships Thassa) — see card
Price: 300,000-500,000 gp | high sentimentality
This favored weapon of Thassa, god of the sea, is
obviously not one she wields—a god would never
forfeit her signature weapon.... But this bident
bears her touch, a blessing conferred to a favored
champion. Why it’s now before you is a mystery.
Perhaps the champion fell, perhaps the bident
became an heirloom passed down so long its true
nature became forgotten, or perhaps Thassa has
designated you as her new beloved champion. If
you hold the weapon and meditate, you hear
whispers of Thassa's philosophy that the sea both
ebbs and floods—sometimes you must give before
you achieve overwhelming, total victory.
The bident is a magic weapon and also functions
as a trident of fish command. On your turn, while
you carry the bident, you gain an action for each
time you suffered a hit since the end of your last
turn.
Paid. The bident has 4 charges, which are used
to fuel spells divinely bestowed by Thassa with no
components required. If you’re otherwise unable
to cast spells, use Charisma for your spellcasting
ability modifier. With the bident in hand, you can
use your action to cast one of the following spells:
wall of water (1 charge), watery sphere (2
charges), or tsunami (3 charges). The trident
regains 1d4 expended charges daily at dawn.
Once a day, while wielding the bident, you may
implore Thassa for a blessing. If you haven’t
offended Thassa (determined by the DM), roll on
the Thassa's Blessings table to determine the
effect.
T

’
 B	


d4
Effect
1
You gain a creature companion as if using a
conjure animals spell. The creature is a giant
sea horse if you’re underwater, otherwise it’s a
warhorse.
2
You heal a number of hit points equivalent to
rolling all your hit dice. This effect doesn't
expend hit dice.
3
You gain a +3 bonus to AC for the next hour.
4
The bident regains all expended charges.
Overpaid. Once a day for the first 10 days after
you attune to the bident, you can cast the
commune spell without requiring material
components to contact Thassa.
Destroying the Bident of Thassa’s Beloved. You
can't easily unmake a weapon blessed by the gods.
There are only two ways to destroy such a
weapon: melt it down in Purphoros' forge, which
resides within Mount Velus, or slay the god who
blessed the weapon—in this case, Thassa—to
transform the weapon into a nonmagical item that
is susceptible to all methods of destruction.
Bident of Thassa’s Beloved


=== PAGE 16 ===
15
BIDET OF THASSA
Wondrous item, common
Price: 1 sp - 5 gp | no sentimentality
This bronze cylinder is about 2 inches long and
half an inch in diameter, with an opening on one
end. You can use a bonus action to speak the
command word, causing salt water to shoot out of
the opening up to a distance of 2 feet for 1 minute.
The water is warm.
Paid. You can use an action to stick the cylinder
to any surface by pressing it against the surface
for 6 seconds. The cylinder remains attached to
the surface until a creature uses an action to
remove it.
Overpaid. The cylinder gleams and never
tarnishes or rusts.
BLADE OF HUBRIS
Weapon (shortsword), uncommon (requires
attunement)
Price: 50-100 gp | low sentimentality
This ornate blade has a golden, bejeweled hilt.
The steel is perfectly polished and glimmers in the
sun. The blade carries the inscription of a fancy
"P" which is perhaps a hint to the owner's identity.
Someone must have traded this weapon for
something truly spectacular from the Gray
Merchant.
Attacks with the blade gain a +1 bonus to attack
and damage rolls. The blade is a magic weapon.
Curse. The blade actually has no magical
properties, but not only do you believe they exist,
you think everyone covets the blade and wants to
take it from you. You also believe that if you slay
legendary monsters with it, the blade grows
stronger. In truth, the blade is a nonmagical
shortsword with no bonuses to attack or damage
rolls.
Removing the curse from the blade changes the
blade's properties to that of a nonmagical
shortsword with no bonuses.
Paid. No additional effects.
Overpaid. No additional effects.
BOUNTIFUL LEKYTHOS
Wondrous item, rare
Price: 1,000-3,000 gp | low sentimentality
This narrow clay flask stands 10 inches tall and is
4 inches at its widest diameter. It has an elegant
thin handle and depicts an image of two people
picking olives. It weighs 4 pounds.
A S L
	
Mele!ans tell a tale of Thassa challenging Ephara’s
patronage of the city. Seeing how its ci!zens had to
carry water from a nearby spring, Thassa promised
that if they voted her as the primary god of Mele!s,
she’d ensure unlimited water wherever they dug.
Excited ci!zens tested her promise by digging into
their fields only for salt water to erupt and kill their
crops. Thus Thassa salted the earth and Mele!ans
realized that a god of the sea is best confined to her
domain.
Coincidentally, that’s around the !me that
depic!ons of Ephara began portraying her dumping
water from a jar onto the ground. Combined with
the fact that Ephara is the only god known to have
killed another god by herself, remember the next
!me someone tells you she’s a minor god: she slays.
You can pour up to 32 ounces of regular olive
oil—not extra virgin—out of the lekythos each
day. The lekythos refills the next dawn. The oil is
usable for cooking and can be sold for up to 1 cp
per ounce to willing buyers.
Paid. You can pour up to 32 ounces of fragrant,
high quality olive oil out of the lekythos each day.
The lekythos refills the next dawn. The oil is
desirable for many rites, such as weddings and
funerals, and can be sold for up to 1 sp per ounce
to willing buyers.
Overpaid. You can use 8 ounces of the oil from
this lekythos as a substitute for the material
components of any divination spell.
BOW OF NYLEA’S HUNTER
Weapon (shortbow), artifact (requires attunement
by a creature that enjoys hunting and respects
nature) — see card
Price: 500,000-750,000 gp | high sentimentality
This shortbow and quiver set is blessed by Nylea,
god of the hunt. It hums with a sound that
resembles distant birdsong. When held, it changes
the sound of your footsteps into rustling wind and
a light breeze, a perfect mix of sound that
deceives the ear into thinking no one is
approaching.
With the bow in hand, you have advantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks and can speak with
animals as if using the speak with animals spell.
You gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls made with this
magic weapon.
Paid. You gain the following attributes when
using the weapon:
Studied Attack. You can use an action to study a
creature by making a DC 20 Intelligence (Nature)


=== PAGE 17 ===
16
or Wisdom (Survival) check. You have advantage
if performing the check on a favored enemy or a
creature on which you have the hunter's mark
spell active. On a successful check, for the next 24
hours, any attack made with the bow that hits the
targeted creature is automatically a critical hit.
Replenishing Quiver. The quiver can hold up to
20 arrows. When you score a critical hit against a
creature using the bow, the spent arrow teleports
back into the quiver and is ready to use again.
Coordinated Hunt. While you are attuned to the
bow, any creature you control has advantage on
attack rolls against creatures you attacked on your
last turn.
Nylea's Guidance. During a long rest, Nylea
whispers guidance to you. You gain a +2 to your
choice of Dexterity, Intelligence, or Wisdom until
your next long rest.
Fickle Patron. Nylea is a fickle god whom you
can easily offend. The following activities cause
the bow to lose all magical properties and
function as a regular shortbow until you regain
her blessing by making an appropriate sacrifice to
her and succeeding a DC 20 Intelligence
(Religion) check:
• Hunt for sport
• Fail to use an action to request her blessing
before attacking a beast that isn’t attacking
you or an ally. You may request her blessing
as part of the Studied Attack action, but you
must explicitly declare the request.
• Participate in a ceremony worshiping or
glorifying Karametra, god of the hearth
• Participate in agricultural activities, including
clearing land for planting
Overpaid. Once a day for the first 10 days after
you attune to the bow, you can cast the commune
spell without requiring material components to
contact Nylea.
Destroying the Bow of Nylea’s Hunter. You
can't easily unmake a weapon blessed by the gods.
There are only two ways to destroy such a
weapon: melt it down in Purphoros' forge, which
resides within Mount Velus, or slay the god who
blessed the weapon—in this case, Nylea—to
transform the weapon into a nonmagical item that
is susceptible to all methods of destruction.
CALLAPHE’S COMPASS
Wondrous item, common — see card
Price: 60-225 gp | low sentimentality
This bronze compass has an image of waves
inscribed on its back. When the compass is in or
over water, its needle points toward the nearest
piece of dry land. While on land, the needle spins
wildly.
Paid. With the compass in hand, you can
concentrate on the compass to specify a type of
land—for example, land with food and water,
large landmass rather than an island, etc.—and the
needle points toward the nearest land that fits your
criteria for the duration of your concentration.
Overpaid. When concentrating on the compass
to specify a type of land, you hear a divine
whisper in your mind estimating the distance to
the land you specified, using general terms such as
"close," "within reach," or "distant."
Bow of Nylea’s
Hunter
Callaphe’s Compass


=== PAGE 18 ===
17
CAP OF AUTHORITY
Wondrous item, common
Price: 5-10 gp | no sentimentality
This cap looks like something an experienced
soldier or seafarer might wear when off duty.
Paid. While wearing the cap, anyone addressing
you must succeed a DC 15 Charisma saving throw
or be compelled to call you by the title of
"captain" until dawn the next day.
Overpaid. You can choose one of the following
titles instead of "captain": "general,"
"commander," or "champion."
CHAPPARAL GRASS
Wondrous item, uncommon
Price: 50-100 gp | no sentimentality
This bundle of dry, stubby grass from the
chapparal between Setessa and the Nessian Wilds
is packed with nutrients and water. It can feed 1
horse or similar pack animal and sustain it for 10
days without the need for additional nourishment.
Paid. You receive 10 bundles of grass.
Overpaid. You receive 20 bundles of grass.
CHORUS MASK
Wondrous item, common
Price: 5-200 gp | no sentimentality
This mask depicts an exaggerated smiling face. It
belonged to an actor who was part of the chorus
of a comedic play.
Paid. When you wear the mask, you hear voices
that comment on your surroundings and the events
occurring around you. The commentary is never
useful and often mundane but occasionally cutting
and witty.
Overpaid. When you wear the mask and make
snide remarks or strategize within hearing range
of people, you can choose who hears you.
CLAY OWL
Wondrous item, uncommon
Price: 90-8,000 gp | low sentimentality
This cute sculpture has eyes a tad too wide even
for an owl. It hoots when you squeeze it.
Paid. The first time it hoots each day, creatures
within 30 feet that its eyes are facing must
succeed a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be
compelled to speak their true name.
Overpaid. You can choose up to 3 hoots a day to
attempt to compel creatures to speak their true
name, instead of the first time each day.
Cap of Authority
Bundle of
Chapparal Grass
Chorus Mask
Clay Owl
Conspirator’s Whistle


=== PAGE 19 ===
18
CONSPIRATOR’S WHISTLE
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
Price: 200-800 gp | low sentimentality
This unassuming silver whistle is small and easy
to hide with a sleight of hand. Once a day, you can
designate up to 3 creatures as your conspirators.
Until dawn the next day, your conspirators are the
only creatures who can hear the whistle, other
than yourself. The whistle's sound has a range of
500 feet and all conspirators within range hear the
whistle clearly at a moderate volume regardless of
their distance from the whistle. Only magical
effects block the whistle's sound.
The whistle is blessed by a cleric of Phenax, god
of deception, and Phenax is the only god whose
divine intervention can enable creatures other than
your conspirators to hear the whistle.
Paid. You can designate up to 8 creatures as
your conspirators, instead of 3.
Overpaid. The whistle's sound has a range of
1,000 feet instead of 500 feet.
CROWN OF ATRIS
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) — see
card
Price: 1,000-10,000 gp | low sentimentality
This immense, gilded crown descends over your
eyes but leaves your vision intact. The crown has
4 charges, which are used to fuel the magic it
contains. While you wear the crown, you can use
an action to expend 1 charge to cast mirror image,
provided you also choose 3 foes you can see. If
there are fewer than 3 foes present, you instead
choose all the foes. For each foe you choose, the
DM rolls on the Truths of Atris table to determine
how those opponents respond to mirror image.
T
  A
d2
Response
1
This foe sees through the illusions created by
mirror image. You can’t redirect attacks from
this foe to a duplicate. This foe attempts to
point out your illusions to its allies, so when
you’re up against creatures allied with this foe
and capable of intelligent strategy, you roll with
disadvantage when attempting to change their
attack’s target to a duplicate.
2
This foe is mesmerized by the illusions created
by mirror image. As long as an illusion remains,
attacks from this foe always target your
duplicate. This foe can’t be convinced by an
ally that it’s attacking an illusion.
If the crown is reduced to 0 charges, the crown
disappears in a plume of white smoke.
Paid. The crown regains 1d4 expended charges
daily at dawn.
Overpaid. You can use an action to expend 2
charges to have truesight out to 120 feet for 30
seconds.
DIARY OF THRASIOS
Story, common — see card
Price: none | no sentimentality
A waterproof seaweed jelly covers this book,
protecting it from the elements. Inside are diary
entries detailing how to reach the lost ruins of a
mythical polis known as Olantin, said to have
achieved incredible technological advancements
before Heliod smote the city for its hubris,
causing it to sink below the waves.
Paid. You’ve heard of Thrasios. He’s a famous
merfolk warrior who defends Meletis and speaks
often of having visited Olantin, though most
people don't believe him. He must be spreading
copies of his diary to encourage others to confirm
his exploits.
Overpaid. Klothys whispers warnings hinting
what terrors await in the sunken ruins, should you
choose to indulge your curiosity.
DRAGON TEETH
Wondrous item, uncommon
Price: 700-2,500 gp | medium sentimentality
This pouch contains 6 dragon teeth, each about
the length of your hand.
Paid. You can use an action to bury a tooth in
dirt. On your next turn, the tooth transforms into a
well-equipped soldier, who uses the stat block of a
thug (MM), and emerges from the dirt. The
soldier shares your initiative order but doesn’t
obey you, is hostile to everyone, and attacks
whoever is closest. The soldier crumbles to dust
after 10 minutes.
Overpaid. The soldier uses the stat block of a
veteran (MM) instead of a thug.
DUST OF NYX
Potion, common — see card
Price: 50-100 gp | no sentimentality
When you drink this potion, portions of your skin
appear to show the night sky of Nyx and sparkle
with starlight. The effect lasts until you finish a
short or long rest. The potion contains suspended
multihued dust that resembles a blue, purple, and
red nebula.
Paid. While under the effects of this potion, you
have advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks


=== PAGE 20 ===
19
when you attempt to pass yourself off as a
Nyxborn creature.
Overpaid. The potion gains a fruity aroma that
makes it appealing to drink.
ENTRANCING LYRE
Wondrous item, very rare — see card
Price: 30,000-80,000 gp | medium sentimentality
Golden arms extend from the base of this
beautiful lyre. With the lyre in hand, you can use
an action to target one creature, causing the lyre to
begin playing itself until it’s destroyed or you use
an action to stop it. The lyre has 25 hit points and
an AC of 12. It can’t target another creature while
it’s playing. If the targeted creature can hear the
lyre play, it must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma
saving throw or become incapacitated until the
end of its next turn. A creature that fails the saving
throw can repeat it at the end of each of its turns,
ending the effect on a success. The lyre can’t
target a creature it has affected in the last 24
hours.
Paid. A target that fails its saving throw is
stunned instead of incapacitated.
Overpaid. The Charisma saving throw DC to
prevent the lyre’s effect is now 18 instead of 15.
EUKLISIA OF EPHARA
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 100-1,000 gp | low sentimentality
As the god of the polis, Ephara wishes her
worshipers to have the trappings of civilization
even when traveling in the wilderness. The
euklisia is a cloth sleeping bag lined with goat
hair that can fit one Large or Medium creature or
two Small or smaller creatures. The euklisia keeps
its occupant at a temperature optimal for comfort
and survival. Creatures using the euklisia have a
speed of 0 feet.
Paid. Creatures inside the euklisia are resistant
to cold and fire damage from sources outside the
euklisia.
Overpaid. Taking a long rest inside the euklisia
removes one level of exhaustion in addition to the
one level removed by taking a long rest.
FLAMECAST WHEEL
Weapon (scimitar), rare (requires attunement) —
see card
Price: 3,000-30,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This golden wheel is a ring that’s two feet in
diameter and molds in your hand to fit your grip.
It’s a magic weapon using the stats of a scimitar
with the thrown (range 20/60) property. If you’re
a spellcaster, you can use this weapon as a
spellcasting focus.
With the wheel in hand, you can use an action to
set the wheel ablaze with magical fire. When the
wheel is ablaze, you have resistance to fire
damage, targets you hit take an extra 1d6 fire
damage, and the blade sheds bright light in a 20-
foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.
The wheel has 2 charges. When you attack a
creature with this weapon and roll a 1 on the
attack roll, the wheel expends 1 charge and casts
fireball on the space you occupy (save DC 15). If
the wheel is reduced to 0 charges, the wheel
shatters into twisted metal shards and is
destroyed.
Paid. The wheel regains 1 expended charge
daily at dawn.
Overpaid. When you throw the wheel, it casts
create bonfire (save DC 15) on the space where it
lands. The spell ends after 1 minute or if you
come within 5 feet of it.
FLEETFEATHER SANDALS
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement)
— see card
Price: 250,000-600,000 gp | high sentimentality
These sandals have small golden wings coming
off their sides.
Paid. While you wear these sandals, you can use
an action to cast the haste or fly spells on yourself
at will. The spells don’t require concentration.
Casting one of the spells while already under its
effects resets its duration but doesn’t stack its
effects.
Overpaid. While wearing the sandals, your
Dexterity score increases by 2.
FLINT OF PHENAX
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
Campfires, torches, and candles lit with this flint
shed bright light and heat for 30 feet but aren’t
visible and can't be felt by anyone standing farther
than 30 feet from them. The effect doesn't conceal
objects or creatures around the flame—it simply
doesn't illuminate them.
Paid. With the flint in hand, you can use an
action to have it ignite a candle, torch, or campfire
without any skill checks.
Overpaid. With the flint in hand, you can use an
action to have it extinguish a candle, torch, or
campfire up to 30 feet away.


=== PAGE 21 ===
20
FLOATING DRIFTWOOD
Wondrous item, uncommon
Price: 400-600 gp | low sentimentality
This ragged piece of driftwood is a foot long and
half a foot wide. It always floats atop any liquid
regardless how much weight is attached to it.
Pieces broken off it don't retain its properties, and
it loses its properties if it loses more than half its
mass.
Paid. If incorporated into the frame of a
seafaring vessel, any part of the vessel attached to
the driftwood can't sink and stays upright.
Overpaid. While touching the driftwood and in a
liquid, you can use an action to make it drift
toward the nearest shore at a speed of 20 feet.
FRAGMENT OF ANGER
Wondrous item, common
Price: 10-80 gp | high sentimentality
This chipped piece of
stone comes from an
Underworld soul who
has forgotten their own
identity, thus turning to
stone and dying a final
death. It’s filled with
anger, asking why
the gods bring
people into the
world just to face
oblivion.
This fragment
makes people feel
irrationally angry when
they touch it.
If you obtained this
fragment from a transformed fragment of
misera, it’s worth high sentimentality if traded to
the Gray Merchant.
Paid. With the fragment in hand, you can focus
on it to relive in your mind one event from your
life that made you extremely angry. You can
perform actions within this mental simulation that
deviate from what you actually did and see how
that changes the course of events. During this
simulation, your actual body is incapacitated. You
may leave this mental simulation and return to
reality at will.
Overpaid. You may choose any willing creatures
in physical contact with you to participate in the
mental simulation with you. They’re also
incapacitated during this simulation but may leave
the simulation independently and at will.
FRAGMENT OF JOY
Wondrous item, common
Price: 10-80 gp | high sentimentality
This chipped piece of stone comes from an
Underworld soul who has forgotten their own
identity, thus turning to stone and dying a final
death. It recognizes all things must pass and is
filled with joy at having lived a life that made a
positive impact, no matter how small.
This fragment makes people feel exuberant and
joyful when they touch it.
If you obtained this fragment from a transformed
fragment of misera, it’s worth high sentimentality
if traded to the Gray Merchant.
Paid. With the fragment in hand, you can focus
on it to relive in your mind one event from your
life that made you extremely joyful. You can
perform actions within this mental simulation that
deviate from what you actually did and see how
that changes the course of events. During this
simulation, your actual body is
incapacitated. You may leave this
mental
simulation and
return to
reality at will.
Overpaid.
You may
choose any
willing
creatures in
physical
contact with
you to
participate in
the mental
simulation
with you.
They’re also
incapacitated during this simulation but may leave
the simulation independently and at will.
FRAGMENT OF MISERA
Story, common — see card
Price: 1 cp - 5 sp | high sentimentality
This chipped piece of stone makes you feel
hollow whenever you’re near it, and touching it
fills you with immense sorrow. It was taken from
the calcified remains of a soul who has lost all
memory and identity in the Underworld, suffering
their final death.
All creatures who come within 10 feet of the
fragment for the first time each day must make a
Underworld Misera


=== PAGE 22 ===
21
DC 12 Wisdom saving throw and on a failure, be
compelled to talk about a sad moment from their
life.
Paid. After 1 day, prolonged exposure to the
fragment makes you immune to its sorrow. You no
longer need to make Wisdom saving throws when
near the fragment or share sad moments from
your life.
Overpaid. Though identity has long fled the lost
soul that became this misera, the gods don’t
forget. Klothys grants anyone who touches the
fragment a glimpse into the soul's life, enough to
identify the person and the person's surviving next
of kin. The DM creates an unresolved situation
pertaining to the soul's former life or chooses one
from the Unfinished Business table.
U
	- B
	

d6
Situation
1
The soul hid away treasure that was never
found. The location but not the nature of the
treasure is now known to you, as well as the
identity and the whereabouts of the soul's heirs.
2
The soul committed a crime that was never
discovered. You now know the nature of the
crime, how to obtain proof of the soul's guilt,
and the identity of the victim and the victim's
descendants, if any.
3
The soul performed heroic deeds but was filled
with hubris, becoming lost in the Labyrinth of
Memories in an attempt to escape from Ilysia
back to the mortal realm. You now know the
nature of the heroic deeds and who they
impacted, allowing you to rekindle memories of
the hero or claim the hero's deeds for your own
glory.
4
The soul died far from a lover who never
learned the soul's fate. You now know how the
soul died, where the soul fell, and the identity of
the soul's lover.
5
The soul had an archrival who was at least
partially responsible for the soul's demise. You
now know the identity of the archrival and what
the archrival did to the soul.
6
The soul loved a particular piece of art—a play,
a poem, a song, or the like—which was the last
memory to leave the soul. You are now familiar
with that piece of art and know the identity of its
creator, who is known to give valuable and
unique gifts to fans. Though the soul
desperately wished to meet the creator in life,
such a joyful encounter never occurred.
Upon resolution of the quest, the fragment
transforms into a fragment of joy if you resolved
the quest in a selfless manner or a fragment of
anger if you resolved the quest in a selfish
manner. Either fragment possesses both its Paid
and Overpaid properties.
FRUIT OF TIZERUS
Wondrous item, rare — see card
Price: 1,000-5,000 gp | high sentimentality
This pomegranate grows from a withered, spiny
tree in Tizerus, a bleak and hopeless realm outside
the palace where Erebos, god of the dead, resides.
The fruit itself is a vivid red and tastes delicious, a
perfect mix of sweet and tart. It contains 100
seeds and can be consumed 1 seed at a time or by
a handful of 10 seeds at a time. You may divide
and distribute seeds in any quantity you choose.
A creature that consumes at least one seed feels
the tug of the Underworld on its soul, causing its
hit point maximum to reduce by an amount equal
to the number of seeds consumed. This reduction
lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target
dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to
0. Targets that die while affected by the fruit can't
be brought back from the dead by any means short
of a wish spell or divine intervention.
Once creatures have consumed at least one seed,
they must succeed a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw
to realize the seeds are draining their life,
otherwise they’re distracted by the flavor and
tempted to eat more. A creature wishing to stop
eating while seeds remain available to it must
succeed a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw, otherwise
it’s tempted into continuing to eat. It may repeat
the saving throw for every 10 seeds it eats.
Once cut open, the fruit lasts 3 days before
dissipating into black smoke. This effect doesn't
occur if the fruit is in the Underworld.
Paid. The fruit doesn't dissipate after you cut it
open.
Overpaid. The fruit contains 500 seeds.
Fruit of Tizerus


=== PAGE 23 ===
22
FUNERARY MASK
Wondrous item, common — see card
Price: 5 sp -10 gp | high sentimentality
This clay mask covers the face of the deceased
and helps the soul resist the Underworld’s eroding
effect on memory and identity. A soul that loses its
identity petrifies into a statue called misera. The
mask is worth high sentimentality when traded to
the Gray Merchant in exchange for another item.
Paid. If you die while wearing this mask in the
Underworld, you can choose to destroy the mask
to avoid gaining a level of exhaustion.
Overpaid. Wearing this mask allows you to
make Charisma (Deception) checks with
advantage when convincing undead creatures that
you aren’t alive. Undead creatures that
automatically attack the living don’t recognize
you as living unless given reason to believe
otherwise.
GOLDEN FUNERAL MASK OF THE
GRAY MERCHANT
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement)
— see card
Price: 80,000-100,000 gp | medium
sentimentality
This mask holds an unlimited number of charges
to fuel its magic. It loses all charges when a new
creature attunes to it. While you wear the mask,
you add 1 charge to the mask every time a
creature with an Intelligence score of 8 or higher
dies within 30 feet of you, capturing a small part
of the creature's life essence but not its soul.
While you wear the mask, you can consume
charges to perform the following actions: regain
expended hit dice (1 charge per die), cast vampiric
touch (2 charges plus 1 charge per level to cast the
spell at higher than 3rd level), cast lesser
restoration (2 charges), cast greater restoration (5
charges), or cast heal (6 charges).
Paid. While you wear the mask, you can use an
action to consume 10 charges to cast mass heal.
Overpaid. You can use an action to summon the
Gray Merchant to visit you, but doing so destroys
the mask, causing it to dissipate into black smoke.
The Gray Merchant arrives at your location 1-5
days after you summon him, depending on his
distance from you at the time you summoned him.
When he arrives, you may choose one item from
him without trading another object in return, and
the trade is treated as though you traded an item
worth high sentimentality.
GOLDEN FUNERAL MASK OF
ASPHODEL
Wondrous item, common
Price: 1-5 cp | low sentimentality
The expression on this mask is eerily neutral, so
unfeeling you wonder what thoughts lurk
underneath. While you wear the mask, you don't
feel anxiety.
Paid. While you wear this mask, you are
immune to the frightened condition.
Overpaid. You learn the location of the
necropolis of Asphodel and become familiar with
the layout of its streets.
GOLDEN FUNERAL MASK OF
ODUNOS
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 100-250 gp | low sentimentality
The expression on this mask is twisted in anger.
While you wear the mask, you feel great rage.
You gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls.
Paid. While you wear the mask, the Returned of
Odunos don't attack you.
Overpaid. You learn the location of the
necropolis of Odunos and become familiar with
the layout of its streets.
Gray Merchant’s Mask


=== PAGE 24 ===
23
GOLDEN FUNERAL MASKS OF THE
PHALANX
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
— see card
Price: 300-1,000 gp | low sentimentality
The expressions on these masks portray grim
determination. While this item looks like a single
mask, you can separate it into up to five masks as
though the masks were stacked atop each other.
Any mask taken more than 120 feet away from
you evaporates into black smoke and ceases
counting toward the five mask limit. The masks
you give away remain attuned to you, not the
creatures who wear them.
All creatures wearing masks from this set are
considered joined. Joined creatures share their hit
points with each other as though they were one
creature with a hit point and maximum hit point
total equal to the sum of the joined creatures.
When a joined creature removes its mask, it takes
its maximum hit points from the joined group's
maximum hit points and takes hit points from the
joined group's remaining hit points equal to the
proportion of its contribution to the group's
maximum hit points rounded down.
For example, if three creatures with 10, 20, and
30 maximum hit points joined together at full
health, they share 60 hit points. They then suffer
10 points of damage, leaving them with 50 hit
points. The creature that contributed 20 maximum
hit points removes its mask, taking 16 hit points
with it and leaving the group with 34 hit points
out of a maximum of 40 hit points.
Paid. You determine how many hit points a
joined creature keeps when it removes its mask.
You can't withhold hit points from the creature if
the group would be left with more hit points than
the group's remaining hit point maximum.
Overpaid. The masks double a joined creature's
hit point and maximum hit point contributions to
the group.
GOLDEN FUNERAL MASK OF THE
PSEUDAMMA
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement) —
see card
Price: 50,000-200,000 gp | high sentimentality
The expression on this mask shows great sorrow.
Once a day, while you wear the mask, you can use
an action to cast dominate person at 6th level on
humanoids with a Wisdom score of 10 or lower. If
you’re otherwise unable to cast spells, use
Charisma for your spellcasting ability modifier.
Paid. You cast dominate person at 7th level.
Overpaid. You cast dominate person at 8th level.
GRAY MERCHANT’S GOLD COIN
Wondrous item, common (requires attunement) —
see card
These coins drop continuously from the Gray
Merchant’s bag, forming a trail marking where he
has passed. They aren’t available for trade but can
be freely picked up by anyone who comes upon
them.
Gold is abundant in the Underworld and
considered worthless by the Returned, but even
so, this isn’t a true gold coin. The coin vanishes
after three days unless you attune to it, which
causes it to persist for the duration of the
attunement. You may use a bonus action to focus
on the coin to determine the general location of
the Gray Merchant. If the Gray Merchant is far
away, you know the name of the area. If he’s
nearby, you know his general direction.
Whenever you pay less than the recommended
price of an item in a trade with the Gray
Merchant, you must roll a d2. If you roll a 1, you
lose attunement to the coin, are unable to attune to
any such coin for five days, and any such coins
you touch vanish instantly.
Gray Merchant’s
Gold Coin


=== PAGE 25 ===
24
HAMMER OF THE FORGED OF
PURPHOROS
Weapon (warhammer), artifact (requires
attunement) — see card
Price: 200,000-600,000 gp | high sentimentality
Purphoros, god of the forge, wielded this hammer
before he crafted a more masterful version. It
crackles like fire and feels almost unbearably hot.
The hammer is a magic weapon.
Up to 3 times each day, you can use an action to
slam the hammer against the earth to summon a
font of lava that lasts for 1 minute or until you use
an action to end it, whichever occurs first. You
can’t summon another font of lava while the first
is active. The lava shares your initiative count and
takes its turn after yours. On its first turn, the font
creates a pool of lava at its location that is 5 feet
wide. The pool expands 5 feet in all directions
each subsequent turn the font is active. Creatures
and objects suffer 6d10 fire damage when they
enter lava for the first time on a turn or end their
turn there.
Master Crafter. With the hammer in hand, you
can use an action to cast the stone shape spell
with the modification that the spell can affect
stone objects of Huge size or smaller or a section
of stone no more than 20 feet in any dimension.
Paid. The hammer deals an extra 1d10 fire
damage on a hit. The hammer also functions as a
stone of controlling earth elementals.
While a font of lava you summoned is active,
you’re immune to fire damage.
Overpaid. Your mind becomes feverish with
Purphoros’ creativity. Describe a piece of
equipment or an item you want to create. The DM
works with you to ensure its properties don’t
break the game’s balance. After ten days, you
know the formula to create it according to the
crafting rules in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything.
The difficulty of crafting the object scales with its
power, but the task is feasible.
Hammer of the Forged
of Purphoros


=== PAGE 26 ===
25
HELIOD’S GLORY
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 500-1,500 gp | low sentimentality
This vase is 3 feet tall, 2 feet in diameter, and
weighs 60 pounds, requiring two people to carry it
by its handles. A clay plug covers the opening.
The painting on the vase depicts Heliod, god of
the sun, striking down titans with his Sun Spear.
You can use an action to remove or replace the
plug. While the plug is removed, swirls of
brilliant golden light rush out of the vase, granting
a +2 bonus to AC to all creatures within 120 feet
of the vase who worship Heliod.
The vase is immune to all damage and can’t be
moved by anyone who doesn’t worship Heliod.
Paid. You can use an action to pull a spear made
of light from the vase. It has the same stats as a
regular spear except it deals radiant instead of
piercing damage. You can use an action to strike
the vase with the spear, causing the vase to
shatter. When the vase shatters, the vase and all
spears pulled from the vase are destroyed and a
brilliant flash of light erupts from the vase
outward to a distance of 120 feet. All creatures
caught in the blast who worship Heliod heal 4d8
hit points. All other creatures caught in the blast
suffer 4d8 radiant damage and must succeed a DC
14 Constitution saving throw or be blinded for
2d4 turns.
Overpaid. The vase weighs 10 pounds when you
first purchase it, allowing it to be carried by one
person. It gains 10 pounds each day at dawn until
it reaches its normal 60 pound weight.
IRIDESCENT PEARL NECKLACE
Wondrous item, common
Price: 50-100 gp | low sentimentality
The pearls of this necklace are said to be the tears
of a dead and forgotten god of love. While you
wear this necklace, a light breeze causes your hair
and clothing to billow elegantly while your face is
always partially illuminated by soft and romantic
light. Humanoids perceive you as beautiful but
sad. This necklace consists of 85 pearls and
merchants generally pay 1 gp for each pearl or
100 gp for the intact necklace.
Paid. While wearing this necklace, you can use a
bonus action to disable its effects until dawn the
next day.
Overpaid. Once a day, while wearing this
necklace, you can use an action to target one
creature and know if it is experiencing great love
or grief.
IROAN PLEDGE
Story, common — see card
Price: none | no sentimentality
This creased piece of paper is falling apart. It
looks like it’s been folded and unfolded countless
times. There’s smudged writing on it, but you can
still tell how neat the lettering used to be. It’s a
pledge that’s common among the famed soldiers
of Akros and swears devotion to Iroas, god of
victory. Possessing a written copy of the pledge
isn’t common practice, but it’s occasionally done
by soldiers to shore up their spirits before a battle.
The copies that do exist are treasured for their role
in bringing victory. It’s unusual to see one be
discarded like this.
The DM can craft an adventure around why a
famed Akroan soldier would forfeit a treasured
symbol of a beloved god or roll against the Lost
Faith table for the reason.
L
 F
d6
Reason
1
The soldier who composed the pledge died in
battle and whoever inherited the pledge lost
faith in Iroas.
2
The soldier traded the pledge for something
from the Gray Merchant that would help win a
greater battle ahead.
3
The soldier decided to pursue a different path
in life and gave up worship of Iroas, but Iroas
doesn't take kindly to those who flee the
battlefield.
4
The soldier feared that having a written version
of the pledge indicated a lack of faith in Iroas,
but giving up the keepsake has taken a terrible
toll on the soldier's morale.
5
A foe captured the soldier and forced the
surrender of the pledge.
6
The soldier received a prophetic vision from
Iroas and learned that giving up the pledge
would lead someone who needed it more to
acquire the training needed for battles ahead.
Paid. You know that Akroan soldiers have close
bonds and speaking to one may help you identify
the owner of this pledge.
Overpaid. Divine intervention clears enough of
the smudges on the pledge to reveal the signature
and name of the soldier who wrote it.
JUDGY GOLDEN APPLE
Wondrous item, common
Price: 50-800 gp | low sentimentality
This golden statuette of an apple is perfectly
ordinary. Once a day, creatures who come within
30 feet of the apple believe they hear the apple
say something judgy about their appearance or


=== PAGE 27 ===
26
personality, but statuettes can't talk, and neither
can apples.
Paid. Look, it's a perfectly normal golden apple.
It's okay to be lonely without anthropomorphizing
inanimate objects.
Overpaid. Wow, you really paid too much for
this thing. Try being less frivolous next time.
KARAMETRAN SICKLE
Weapon (sickle), common — see card
Price: 1-10,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This sickle slices effortlessly when harvesting any
ripe fruit or crop that’s ready for harvest. It passes
harmlessly through any fruit or crop that isn’t
ready for harvest, leaving them to continue
growing. The sickle is a magic weapon.
Paid. Any fruit or vegetable harvested by the
sickle tastes delicious and how one imagines the
ideal version of that fruit or vegetable should
taste.
Overpaid. Once a day for the first ten days after
you purchase this sickle from the Gray Merchant,
you may cast the commune spell without requiring
material components to contact Karametra.
LAUREL WREATH
Wondrous item, rare — see card
Price: 1,000-5,000 gp | low sentimentality
This wreath is only given to champions of the
Iroan Games held in Akros. People assume
anyone who possesses or wears such a wreath
won one of the sporting events at the Games.
While you hold or wear the wreath, you have
advantage on any Charisma checks in which you
make an appeal to athleticism or athletic fame. If
you won this wreath yourself at the Iroan Games,
you may choose to have advantage on Strength
(Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks up to
three times a day.
Paid. The legacy of whoever previously owned
the wreath inspires you. Once a day, while
wearing the wreath, you may reroll a Strength
(Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. You
must use the new roll.
Overpaid. Klothys appreciates the respect
you’ve shown by valuing such an item highly and
gives you the opportunity to earn the right to wear
the wreath honestly. Upon the completion of a
great feat of athleticism or heroism, determined
by the DM, you receive an invitation to participate
in the next Iroan Games. A wreath won at the
Iroan Games is worth high sentimentality.
LEONIN HAIRBRUSH
Wondrous item, common
Price: 5-20 gp | no sentimentality
This brush comes from Oreskos, a remote river
valley ruled by leonin where grooming is
important for cleanliness.
Paid. The hairbrush effortlessly and painlessly
untangles knots.
Overpaid. You attract domesticated animals that
have fur in need of brushing. The hairbrush loses
this property if you directly or indirectly cause
harm to an animal that approaches you for this
reason.
LEONIN SNARE
Adventuring gear, common — see card
Price: 1-3 gp | no sentimentality
This intricately woven snare can be thrown at a
single creature or set as a trap when connected to
a tripwire. Once thrown or triggered, a creature
must succeed a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or
be restrained. A creature can use its action to
make a DC 15 Dexterity check and on a success,
untangle the snare to free itself or another creature
within its reach. Each failed check tangles the
caught creature further, increasing the DC of the
Dexterity check to untangle the snare by 1, up to a
maximum of 20.
Paid. The snare comes with instructions on how
to craft your own, requiring 50 feet of rope, 4
stones weighing at least 5 pounds each, and 6
hours to assemble.
Overpaid. Through perhaps divine revelation,
you realize a way to throw the snare that increases
the DC of the Dexterity saving throw to dodge it
to 15.
LIGHTNING DIADEM
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) — see
card
Price: 5,000-10,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This diadem is made of crackling lightning but
can be held as though made of metal. While you
wear the diadem, any creature that hits you with a
melee attack must succeed a DC 14 Constitution
check or suffer 1d4 lightning damage.
Paid. While you wear the diadem, creatures
within 5 feet of you that suffer lightning damage
also suffer 1d4 thunder damage.
Overpaid. You have resistance to lightning
damage.


=== PAGE 28 ===
27
MELETIS AGORA LICENSE
Adventuring gear, common
Price: 50 gp | no sentimentality
This license permits you to set up a merchant
stand in the agora of Meletis. It bears the
appropriate seals and has blank spaces you can fill
in with identifying information for you and your
shop. It was likely traded to the Gray Merchant by
a Meletian official for a monetary value
equivalent to the agora's licensing fee. The DM
determines the value of the licensing fee, which
could be significantly higher than the price given
here by the Gray Merchant. If you’ve visited
Meletis, you may make a DC 15 Intelligence
(History) check, and on a success, recall the
amount of the licensing fee. You make the check
with advantage if you’re from Meletis.
Paid. If traded back to the Gray Merchant for a
different item, the monetary value of this item is
whatever it costs in Meletis to obtain such a
license.
Overpaid. Upon receipt of the license, you
realize you recognize the seal on the license and
know the identity of the Meletian official who
issued it.
MIRROR OF ALIRIOS
Wondrous item, common — see card
Price: 1-100 gp | low sentimentality
This rectangular mirror is 2 feet tall, 1 foot wide,
and weighs 4 pounds. Characters looking into this
mirror see themselves the way they wished they
looked, representing their ideal selves. They can't
see anyone else’s reflection in this mirror.
Paid. Characters see other people’s reflections in
this mirror, but they appear as they do in real life,
not the way they see themselves in the mirror.
Overpaid. Characters see other people’s
reflections in this mirror and those reflections
appear the way those people see themselves in the
mirror.
MIRROR SHIELD
Armor (shield), rare — see card
Price: 1,000-10,000 gp | low sentimentality
The surface of this metal shield is so perfectly
reflective that you can use it as a mirror. Your
gaze is considered averted from a creature or
object when you view its reflection in the shield.
Paid. With the shield in hand, when a spell that
targets you and requires an attack roll misses you,
you can use your reaction to reflect the spell back
at the creature that attacked you. You make a
ranged attack roll as part of the same reaction to
determine if the reflected spell hits.
Overpaid. With the shield in hand, you gain a +2
bonus to saving throws against spells that require
the target to make a saving throw to avoid some
or all of a spell's effects.
NYX LOTUS
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement) —
see card
Price: 20,000-70,000 gp | high sentimentality
This lotus can hold up to 9 charges and starts with
all charges expended when you first attune to it.
Once a day, you can spend 10 minutes praying to
a god. If the god is pleased with you, the lotus
regains 1d4 expended charges. Alternatively, you
may sacrifice to the god instead of praying,
following the appropriate ritual and giving an
appropriate offering, to regain 1d8 + 1 expended
charges.
While you’re carrying the lotus, you can use an
action to target yourself to regain an expended
spell slot, expending a number of charges from
the lotus equal to the level of the spell slot.
Paid. With the lotus in hand, you can use an
action to destroy it and regain an expanded spell
slot of any level, regardless how many charges the
lotus is holding.
Overpaid. You can choose a creature other than
yourself as the target of your action when you use
the lotus.
Nyx Lotus


=== PAGE 29 ===
28
ORESKOS HERESY
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement) —
see card
Price: 45,000-99,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This stone amulet depicts the profile of a leonin
face roaring in defiance of the heavens.
Paid. While wearing the amulet, you ignore
restrictions requiring you to be a worshiper of a
god. For example, you’re able to enter areas
warded to restrict access to those who don’t
worship a specific god, even if you don't worship
that specified god. You’re also able to attune to
magic items such as the Sun Spear, which require
you to worship a certain god or type of god, even
if you don't worship the specified god.
Overpaid. You benefit from the amulet's effects
even if you’re not wearing it, as long as you
remain attuned to it and know its location.
PHARIKA’S CURE
Potion, uncommon — see card
Price: 10-150 gp | no sentimentality
When you drink this potion, roll a d4. If you roll a
1, you suffer poison damage equal to your
maximum hit points. The potion's smoky,
purplish-pink liquid hisses like a pit of snakes.
Paid. When you drink this potion, you gain the
benefits of the greater restoration spell. You must
still roll to see if you suffer poison damage.
Overpaid. You roll a d10 instead of a d4 to
determine if you suffer poison damage.
PHARIKA’S LIBATION JAR
Wondrous item, rare — see card
Price: 5,000-8,000 gp | medium sentimentality
Paintings of venomous snakes cover the jar. The
jar can hold up to a cup's worth of liquid and any
liquid placed in the jar and kept there for 24 hours
becomes a poison with the properties of assassin's
blood (DMG). The poison retains all the liquid's
original properties, including taste, texture, and
appearance, and its poisonous nature can only be
detected via magic. A sip of the liquid counts as a
full dose of the poison, but drinking more, up to
the full cup, doesn’t increase the poison's effects.
Once you’ve added any amount of liquid into
the jar, you can’t add more liquid until you pour
out what’s already in the jar.
Paid. Instead of gaining the properties of
assassin's blood, the liquid gains the properties of
an ingested poison of your choice from the
Dungeon Master's Guide. You must choose the
type of poison when you first pour the liquid into
the jar, or it defaults to assassin's blood.
Overpaid. The liquid only needs to be in the jar
for 12 hours to become the poison of your choice.
PHOENIX FEATHER
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
Price: 500-750 gp | low sentimentality
The fires that once erupted from this phoenix's
feather have long extinguished, but the feather is
still hot to the touch.
Paid. After you attune to the feather, the first
time you would drop to 0 hit points as a result of
taking damage, you instead regain hit points equal
to your maximum hit points and the feather bursts
into flame and is destroyed.
Overpaid. When the feather is destroyed, a
sphere of fire erupts from the feather. Creatures
within 30 feet of the feather that aren’t attuned to
it must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw.
Targets suffer 4d6 fire damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.
POTION OF PARADOX
Potion, rare
Price: 1,200-2,400 gp | low sentimentality
When you drink this potion, you contemplate the
nature of the universe. You realize that a creature
moving toward a destination must first move half
the distance between it and its destination, then
half the remaining distance, again and again,
meaning that it never manages to reach its goal.
This liquid is a clear concoction that distorts
objects seen through it such that they seem to
stretch infinitely into the distance.
Paid. For 10 minutes after you drink this potion,
creatures can't move toward you more than half
the distance between them and you during their
turn.
Overpaid. For 10 minutes after you drink this
potion, ranged attacks that target you don't hit
until the end of your turn. If you move during
your turn, the ranged attack misses and strikes the
empty air where you previously stood.
PROWLER’S HELM
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
— see card
Price: 600-1,500 gp | low sentimentality
An ethereal green glow fills the inside of this
warrior’s helm. While you wear it, you gain a +1
bonus to Dexterity skill checks.


=== PAGE 30 ===
29
Paid. While you wear the helm, you have
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to
hide.
Overpaid. Once a day, while you wear the helm,
you can use an action to cast the pass without
trace spell.
PYXIS OF PANDEMONIUM
Wondrous item, legendary — see card
Price: 1,000,000 gp | high sentimentality
This plain pyxis looks like an average piece of
ceramic except it’s immune to all damage and
covered by a lid that can’t be removed.
Paid. Any creature can use an action to remove
the lid when in initiative order to trigger the
following events:
The DM identifies every creature within 180 feet
of the pyxis that is attuned to at least one item and
compiles a list of all attuned items. All identified
creatures lose attunement to their items. The DM
gives the creature that removed the lid one
randomly selected item from the list. The DM
then gives one randomly selected item from the
list to the next identified creature in the initiative
order and repeats this activity until all items are
distributed. When all items are distributed, all
identified creatures immediately equip and
become attuned to the items they received.
Next, all creatures within 180 feet of the pyxis
lose all magic items to which they aren’t attuned.
The lost items move into a pocket plane for the
next 10 minutes, and at the end of the duration,
they appear in a pile at the feet of the creature that
removed the lid.
Finally, the DM rolls a d4 and if the result is a 1,
the pyxis erupts in flames and is destroyed.
Overpaid. There are no additional effects.
QUILL OF EPHARA
Wondrous item, common
Price: 70-250 gp | low sentimentality
You can use the quill to write a message or draw
on any solid surface, including the surface of a
living creature, and your work is always legible as
you intended. The message appears to be written
in black ink, but the quill doesn’t need ink to
write. Nothing can remove the message or
drawing except salt water, which instantly washes
it away.
Paid. You can choose the color of the quill’s ink
and change the color at will as long as you’re
within 30 feet of what you wrote or drew.
Overpaid. When you finish writing, you can
choose to make your written words
understandable by all. All creatures who know at
least one language see your message as though
written in a language they know.
RING OF ANAX
Story/ring, artifact (requires attunement by a
creature that worships Purphoros, doesn’t require
attunement if the creature is attuned to the Ring of
Cymede) — see card
This ring belongs to Anax, king of Akros, and
remains in Anax's possession unless he has died or
is no longer mortal.
You gain the following attributes when wearing
the ring:
Hardened by War. You have resistance to
bludgeoning, slashing, and piercing damage.
Inspirational Warrior. Allies within 30 feet of
you gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls when attacking
with a weapon.
Frontline Commander. While you wear the
ring, you gain a +1 bonus to your damage for each
ally who successfully hit a target since the end of
your last turn.
Destroying the Ring. You can't destroy the ring
so long as Anax or his spirit survives, but Anax
takes the ring from you if you help him reunite
with Cymede. In return, you receive the Ring of
Promised Reunion.
Story. Unlike the descriptions for the items in
this supplement, this section is intended for the
DM’s eyes only. Potential spoilers follow for
players. In Magic: The Gathering lore, Anax ruled
Akros with his wife, Queen Cymede. Both were
celebrated champions who jointly built the city up
to the stature it enjoys in the present day. Though
Anax started as a fierce warrior and worshiper of
Iroas, god of victory, he matured with his city and
came to value building and creating, shifting his
allegiance to Purphoros, god of the forge.
Cymede, on the other hand, was a steadfast
devotee of Keranos, god of storms. She was a
talented wielder of elemental magic, drawing the
admiration of the god himself, and in her youth, a
lightning strike granted her a limited ability to see
the future. Such a gift was a mixed blessing, as
the visions Keranos shared couldn’t be changed.
Eventually, a great war broke out and an army
laid siege to Akros. Anax was gravely injured
defending the city, and seeing no other option,
Cymede pledged herself to Keranos in exchange
for his intervention. A pillar of fire consumed
Cymede, taking her into Nyx to be by Keranos’
side. In exchange for her sacrifice, the god sent a
tidal wave that saved Anax and broke the siege.


=== PAGE 31 ===
30
The peace Cymede bought was short-lived,
however, as a war between the gods broke out
shortly afterward. Each of the major deities chose
a mortal hero as their champion, transforming
them into demigods at the cost of their
individuality. Anax became the champion of
Purphoros and lost all free will, his mind
consumed only with victory. However, those who
face him and survive report that despite his single-
minded ferocity, he constantly repeats one word:
“Cymede.”
Your campaign may take place at any point in
this timeline or deviate from the story altogether,
but if you wish to use elements of the tale, the
Rings of Anax and Cymede provide you a way to
bring their story to a happier conclusion.
RING OF CYMEDE
Ring/story, artifact (requires attunement by a
creature that worships Keranos or a god of
elemental power) — see card
Price: 450,000-500,000 gp | medium
sentimentality
This ring belonged to Cymede, queen of Akros,
before her ascension into Nyx to serve Keranos,
god of storms. While you wear the ring, you
occasionally have visions about events that will
occur. The visions may be so vague you only
understand them in hindsight or so clear you feel
you’re watching events unfold before you. The
only common theme is that any vision you see
can't be changed—events will unfold exactly as
foretold.
Paid. You gain the following attributes when
wearing the ring:
Skilled Tactician. You gain advantage on
Wisdom (Insight) checks to detect deception.
Master of Elements. You have resistance to fire,
cold, lightning, and thunder damage. You gain a
+3 bonus to attack rolls or DC to save when
casting spells that deal fire, cold, lightning, or
thunder damage.
Overpaid. While you wear the ring, you can lose
a quarter of your maximum hit points to cast the
conjure elementals spell with the modification that
the spell doesn't require concentration and the
elemental can't become hostile toward you.
Destroying the Ring. You can't destroy the ring
so long as Cymede or her spirit survives, but
Cymede takes the ring from you if you help her
reunite with Anax. In return, you receive the Ring
of Promised Reunion.
Story. Unlike the descriptions for the items in
this supplement, this section is intended for the
DM’s eyes only. Potential spoilers follow for
players. Continuing the story told under the Ring
of Anax entry, Cymede’s ability to foresee the
future showed her an eventual reunion with Anax.
Should you wish to pursue such a storyline, the
character who attunes to the ring sees a recurring
vision of that promised reunion. The character
senses great divine wrath accompanying this
vision, as Keranos doesn't wish to lose Cymede,
but some destinies are greater than even the gods.
If Anax has relinquished possession of the Ring of
Anax, the visions drive the character to obtain it.
RING OF PROMISED REUNION
Story/ring, artifact (requires attunement by a
creature that helped reunite Anax and Cymede) —
see card


=== PAGE 32 ===
31
This steel ring is shaped like two hands clutching
each other and can only be obtained from Anax
and Cymede if you helped reunite them and
returned both their rings to them (see Ring of
Anax and Ring of Cymede).
Once a day, you can cast the resurrection spell
without expending a spell slot if you fulfill the
spell's component requirements.
One time ever, you can use an action to cast
either the basic use of the wish spell or one of the
other specified effects of the wish spell without
suffering the stress of casting the spell. You can't
wish for an effect beyond the scope of the
specified effects.
Destroying the ring. You can’t destroy the ring
so long as Anax or Cymede survive in mortal or
spiritual form.
RINGS OF KYNAIOS AND TIRO
Ring, artifact (requires attunement by a pair of
creatures friendly toward each other) — see card
Price: 600,000-900,000 gp | medium
sentimentality
This pair of rings belonged to Kynaios and Tiro,
legendary joint kings of Meletis who overthrew a
tyrannical archon and founded the polis over the
ruins of his empire. They were
lovers who ushered in an age
of enlightenment and
peace, though their tale
became lost to time.
Two creatures friendly
to each other must attune
to the rings at the same
time. You can neither
attune to both rings nor
a single ring by itself.
While wearing the
rings, you can communicate via
telepathy with the other ring's
owner no matter the distance
between you, even if you are on
different planes.
Paid. When you’re within 10
feet of the other ring's owner,
both your ability modifiers
become the sum of your
individual ability modifiers. In
combat, when you’re within 10
feet of the other ring's owner,
you each gain an additional
action and both of you can use
an action to allow the other to
take an action instead.
Overpaid. If the other ring's owner is 30 feet or
closer to you and is the target of an attack that
would hit them, you can use your reaction to
move beside them and be the target of the attack
instead. This reaction doesn't provoke opportunity
attacks.
Destroying the Rings. The rings are immune to
all damage unless the souls of Kynaios and Tiro
revoke their blessings on the rings, in which case
they lose all magical properties.
ROD OF GALLIA
Rod, very rare (requires attunement) — see card
Price: 15,000-35,000 gp | medium sentimentality
This ivory rod has wildflowers blooming out of
the tip and the handle is gilded with gold. Once a
day, with the rod in hand, you can use an action to
drive it into the ground, causing joyful music with
a catchy beat to erupt out of it for 1 minute. The
music ends early if you pull the rod out of the
ground.
Paid. For the duration of the rod's music, all
creatures within 120 feet of the rod, including
yourself, must succeed a DC 15 Charisma saving
throw or be compelled to drop what they’re
holding, link hands in a circle, and dance.
Creatures immune to being charmed automatically
succeed their saving throw. When the music ends,
all associated compulsions also end.
Overpaid. Once a day, if the Otto's Irresistible
Dance spell is on your class' spell list, you can
cast the Otto's Irresistible Dance spell at 6th level
without expending a spell slot.
ROD OF KERANOS
Rod, very rare (requires attunement
by a spellcaster) — see card
Price: 75,000-100,000 gp | high
sentimentality
This metal rod is 2 feet long and
causes anyone who touches it to
receive a harmless static shock. It
hums with energy. With the rod in
hand, you have resistance to lightning
damage.
Paid. Once a day, with the rod in
hand, you can cast the call lightning
spell at 9th level.
Overpaid. Once a day for the first ten
days after you attune to the rod, you
may cast the commune spell without
requiring material components to
contact Keranos, god of storms.
Rod of Gallia
Rod of Keranos


=== PAGE 33 ===
32
SACRIFICIAL KNIFE
Weapon (dagger), very rare (requires attunement
by a creature that worships a god) — see cards
Price: 10,000-30,000 gp | medium sentimentality
The knife is beautiful, with gold trim on the
handle. You can choose to have it deal 4d4
slashing damage instead of its normal 1d4
piercing damage when attacking beasts with a
challenge rating of 0.
Paid. Once a day, you can use an action to pull
out the entrails of a creature killed by the knife
and spend 10 minutes studying them to reveal
omens about the future.
Roll on the Omens table to determine the omen
you receive.
O1	
d12
Omen
1-3
Disease has turned the entrails black, and the
patterns in the putrid infestation tell you an
Omen of the Dead.
4-5
Green, undigested foliage fills the entrails,
giving an Omen of the Hunt.
6-7
You see glimmers of blue among the shiny
entrails like light sparkling off ocean waves,
revealing an Omen of the Sea.
8-9
Red blood seeps from fresh entrails like
molten metal through molds, presenting an
Omen of the Forge.
10-11 White fat runs through these entrails, meaning
they’ll burn aromatically, presenting a fine
sacrifice to Heliod, chief among the gods. It’s
an Omen of the Sun.
12
An absence of color in these entrails doesn’t
mean an absence of meaning, instead being
an Omen of the Night Sky
Each omen grants different benefits:
Omen of the Dead. The omen warns of a brush
with death. Roll five d20s and record the results in
the order you rolled the dice. The first time you’d
drop to 0 hit points within the next 24 hours,
determine whether you’d stabilize or die if you’d
rolled the recorded results as your death saving
throws. If you’d stabilize, you instead drop to 1
hit point. If you’d die, you die immediately.
Omen of the Hunt. The omen predicts a great
hunt. Roll two d20s and record the results. The
first time you enter combat within the next 24
hours, assign the results of the rolls to two
different creatures entering combat—you can only
assign each result once—and those results replace
the values of their Dexterity checks when
determining their initiative order.
Omen of the Sea. The sea is no place for the
unskilled, so the omen grants you visions to aid in
the trials that may come. The next three times you
make a skill check within the next 24 hours, you
make the check with advantage.
Omen of the Forge. The omen reminds you that
destruction must accompany creation. Roll 2d12
and record the result. Once in the next 24 hours,
you can use a bonus action to target one creature
within 60 feet of you to suffer fire damage equal
to the value of the result. Creatures don't know
you’re the cause of the damage unless they’re
worshipers of Purphoros, within 30 feet of you
when you use your bonus action, and succeed a
DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check.
Omen of the Sun. The omen tells of coming
dangers. Roll three d20s and record the results.
During the next 24 hours, you can use each result
once to replace the result of a saving throw made
by any creature within 60 feet of you.
Omen of the Night Sky. The omen speaks of
magic descending from Nyx to aid you, weakened
by the journey but still effective. Roll three d20s,
halve the results, rounded down, and record the
halved results. During the next 24 hours, you can
use each result once to add it to any roll you
make.
Overpaid. The first time you attune to the knife,
you gain the effects of the legend lore spell as
though you cast it.
SATYR’S PILOI
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
Price: 400-600 gp | low sentimentality
While wearing these piloi, or socks, your legs
transform into the legs of a satyr. The size and
length of the satyr's legs don’t scale according to
your size—you have a speed of 40 feet, a high
jump of 4 feet, and a long jump of 12 feet.
Paid. While wearing the piloi, your standing
long jump distance is the same as your long jump
distance and you always land on your feet when
landing in difficult terrain.
Overpaid. While wearing the piloi, you have
advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving
throws made against effects that would knock you
prone.
SCARF OF ATHREOS
Wondrous item, uncommon
Price: 500-4,000 gp | low sentimentality
This scarf has been blessed by clerics of Athreos,
the god of passage who ferries souls of the dead to
the Underworld. It protects travelers so they’re
able to reach their intended destinations. It also
protects the living so that they don’t meet their
death before their fated time.


=== PAGE 34 ===
33
Paid. Once a day, while you wear the scarf, it
automatically covers your face if you’re exposed
to a poisonous substance, giving you advantage
on your Constitution saving throw against the
poison's effects.
Overpaid. While you wear the scarf, it constricts
lightly around you to warn you if you’re about to
ingest a poisonous object.
SCRAP OF EPIC POETRY
Story, common
Price: none | no sentimentality
This piece of parchment contains what appears to
be a draft of a few stanzas of an epic poem, with
many revision marks and words scratched out and
replaced. Nevertheless, the writing is evocative
and creative, leading you to wonder who
created—and then discarded—this work.
The DM can craft an adventure around why the
poet would give away this poem or roll against the
following tables:
R	
  D
5- 	 P	1
d8
Reason
1
Frustration after being unable to find an
audience
2
Inability to complete the poem due to writer's
block
3
Completion of the final draft of the poem,
rendering the early drafts expendable even if
they hold sentimental value
4
Desire to obtain something from the Gray
Merchant to help with the poet's art
5
Hope to give the Gray Merchant new meaning
and identity in life through artistic inspiration
6
Belief that the unfinished poem would find its
way into the hands of someone who needs it
7
Fear because reading the poem causes terrible
nightmares
8
Sadness due to real world events that occurred
during the writing of the poem making it
impossible to work on it without being reminded
of tragedy
R	7-  F- 	 P	 (-
519	  	:	
	- 
;
)
d6
Reward
1
A copy of a completed poem (DM's choice
whether it has magic properties)
2
A magic item from table B in chapter 3
3
The poet as a trustworthy contact
4
Cryptic hints about how to progress another
quest the party is undertaking
5
The poet as the party’s companion to chronicle
its tale
6
The poet as a traveling bard who spreads
heroic tales of the party's deeds, building a
reputation for the party
P	1 C	
d6
Subject
1
A great war
2
A doomed romance
3
The adventures of someone chosen by the
gods to be their champion
4
A mission to slay a great monster
5
A struggling polis returning to glory under the
guidance of its former ruler's heir
6
The fall of a hero who dared challenge the gods
P	’
 C	 W		A
d10 Location and Activity
1
Building an audience in Meletis
2
Chronicling heroic deeds in Akros
3
Communing with nature in Setessa
4
Contemplating the world's edge at Kruphix's
Temple of Mystery
5
Exploring sorrow in the ruins of Iretis
6
Captured for sacrifice in the minotaur polis of
Skophos
7
Seeking an answer from the gods at the shrine
of Nykthos
8
Accompanying a group of adventurers sailing
the ocean beyond the Siren Sea
9
Adopted by centaurs in the Nessian Wilds in
exchange for a promise to tell their stories
10
Inspiring the leonin of Tethmos to rise up and
conquer the world
SETESSAN JOKE BASKET
Wondrous item, common
Price: 15-25 gp | low sentimentality
This beautiful woven basket is always filled with
wax apples. No matter how many you take, it
remains full. The wax apples appear to be real
apples in every sense, from touch to smell, except
when you bite down on them and end up with a
mouthful of wax.
Paid. Not all the apples in the basket are fake
anymore. When you bite into an apple from the
basket, roll a d2. On a 1, the apple is wax. On a 2,
the apple is real.
Overpaid. If you purchased the basket, you can
tell if an apple is real or fake by touching it.
Setessan
Joke Basket


=== PAGE 35 ===
34
SETESSAN LASSO
Weapon (whip), very rare (requires attunement)
Price: 80,000-160,000 gp | high sentimentality
This lasso looks like an ordinary piece of rope,
but when you attack, it glows with golden light
and deals a bonus 1d8 radiant damage on hit.
Paid. With the lasso in hand, you can use the
lasso to attempt to grapple one creature with
advantage and can use a Dexterity (Acrobatics)
check instead of Strength (Athletics). When you
attempt to grapple foes with the lasso, you have a
reach of 10 feet and can grapple foes of any size.
You can't grapple more than one creature at a time
with the lasso. You can use an action to place a
creature you’re grappling with the lasso under the
same effects as the zone of truth spell, and the
creature makes its save with disadvantage. If
you’re otherwise unable to cast spells, use
Wisdom for your spellcasting ability modifier.
Creatures can’t cut themselves free from the lasso.
Overpaid. When you attempt to place a creature
grappled by the lasso under the same effects as the
zone of truth spell, the DC for its saving throw
increases by 5.
SIGILED STARFISH
Story, rare — see card
Price: 500-1,500 gp | no sentimentality
This desiccated starfish has glowing red sigils
carved into its body in a language only Nyxborn
creatures or oracles can read. The sigils document
a dire prophecy from Kruphix about a threat to all
of Theros.
The DM can roll on the Prophecies of Doom
table to determine the nature of the prophecy.
P9	5	
  D1
d4
Subject of the Prophecy
1
A conspiracy pertaining to the ultimate threat of
a campaign
2
A threat from another plane (eg. Nicol Bolas,
Acererak, etc.)
3
A war between the gods (eg. Heliod trying to
eliminate worship of the other gods)
4
An individual fated to become a threat to
Theros (eg. Xenagos, Elspeth, maybe even
yourself or a party member...)
Paid. You realize the starfish is a rare specimen
that can be resold for a price similar to what you
paid for it.
Overpaid. New text appears on the starfish's
body giving a previously unknown hint about how
to stop the threat.
SKEIN OF SKOPHOS
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
— see card
Price: 800-1,000 gp | low sentimentality
This skein of yarn contains 1,000 feet of yarn
coiled in a ball that fits in your hand and weighs 1
pound. You can unravel the coil to leave a trail of
yarn behind you. As long as the yarn remains
connected to the skein, the yarn is unyielding and
can’t be moved except by you, the use of a wish
spell, or divine intervention. If strung above the
ground, creatures that move into the yarn must
succeed a DC 10 Strength saving throw or fall
prone. A segment of yarn can be cut or destroyed
by suffering a cumulative 10 points of magical
slashing, acid, fire, lightning, or necrotic damage,
at which point all segments of yarn not connected
to the skein become normal yarn with no magical
properties. The yarn is immune to all other types
of damage.
Paid. The yarn becomes invisible to everyone
except you when you begin unraveling it. It
becomes visible again once you ravel all
connected segments back into the skein.
Overpaid. If strung above the ground, creatures
that move into the yarn suffer 1d6 magical
slashing damage.
Sigiled Starfish
Skein of Skophos


=== PAGE 36 ===
35
SORROWFUL LEKYTHOS
Wondrous item, common
Price: 1-10 gp | high sentimentality
This narrow clay flask stands 7 inches
tall and is 3 inches at its widest diameter.
It has an elegant thin handle and depicts a
group of bards playing at a funeral. It
weighs 3 pounds.
You can pour up to 8 ounces of
fragrant olive oil used for funerals out
of the lekythos each day. The
lekythos refills the next dawn.
Anyone smelling the poured out
oil remembers the saddest
moments of their life until they
stop smelling the oil.
Loud sorrowful wails emit
from within the lekythos when
it’s empty.
Paid. A chorus singing a sad
dirge—the words indistinct—
replaces the loud sorrowful
wails when the lekythos is empty.
Overpaid. Instead of hearing a chorus or
wails when the lekythos is empty, anyone
who has a deceased love one hears the
voice of the deceased calling out from
within the lekythos.
SOUL-GUIDE LANTERN
Wondrous item, uncommon — see
card
Price: 100-750 gp | low
sentimentality
When lit, any undead creature
with a challenge rating of 1 or
lower that comes within 60
feet of the lantern becomes
unconscious until it’s no
longer within 60 feet of the
lantern or the lantern
extinguishes, whereupon it
wakes prone if it has more
than 0 hit points.
Paid. Undead creatures with
a challenge rating higher than 1
must succeed a Wisdom saving
throw (DC 15 - their challenge
rating) or suffer the same effects
from the lantern as undead
creatures with a challenge rating of 1 or lower.
Overpaid. The lantern has 3 charges, which are
used to fuel the magic it contains. With the lantern
in hand, you can use your action to expend 1
charge to cast the banishment spell (save DC 15,
no concentration required) on an undead creature.
While a creature is banished by the lantern, you
can't use the lantern to cast banishment again and
the lantern glows with an ethereal white light that
casts bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light
for an additional 30 feet. The lantern
regains all expended charges daily at
dawn.
SPRINGLEAF DRUM
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 600-1,000 gp | low
sentimentality
The springleaf is a large and robust
leaf favored by satyrs for drum-
making. Creatures find the deep, robust
sound of these drums to be mesmerizing.
Once a day, with the drum in hand, you
can use an action to play the drum. Once
you play the drum, your allies can use
their action on their turn to cheer for your
performance. For each ally who cheers your
performance, you can choose one creature at the
start of your next turn to charm for one turn.
Creatures charmed in this way are immune to the
drum's effects for the next 24 hours.
Paid. Charmed creatures don’t realize they
were charmed when the effect ends and abide by
any agreements they made while charmed.
Overpaid. Creatures can be charmed by the
drum's effects for 5 turns, or 30
seconds, before they become immune
to the drum's effects for the next 24
hours. If charmed creatures take
damage, the charmed condition ends
immediately and the creatures become
immune to the drum's effects for the
next 24 hours.
STAFF OF ATHREOS
Staff, legendary (requires attunement
by a worshiper of a god of death) —
see card
Price: 100,000-200,000 gp | high
sentimentality
This gnarled staff belongs to devotees of
Athreos, the god of passage, who ferries
souls across the rivers separating the
Underworld from the mortal realm. With the staff
in hand, you can use an action to dip the base of
the staff into water to transform the staff into a
boat capable of carrying yourself and 6 creatures
Sorrowful Lekythos
Soul-Guide Lantern


=== PAGE 37 ===
36
of Medium size. When the staff transforms, its
upper half forms the prow of the boat and you
must maintain your grip on the prow to keep the
staff transformed. When the staff first transforms
into the boat, you raise your maximum hit points
by 100 and gain 100 hit points. When the boat
transforms back into the staff, you lower your
maximum hit points by 100 and lose any hit
points you have over your new maximum. You
suffer all damage suffered by the boat or
occupants of the boat. The boat has a speed of 60
feet. You can let go of the prow or use an action
while holding the prow to transform the boat back
into the staff. The boat transforms back into the
staff if you fall unconscious.
Paid. While the staff is
transformed into a boat, you
gain resistance to all
damage types and
creatures can't make
attacks of
opportunity
against you, your
boat, or anyone
in your boat. The
boat can't capsize
and occupants of
the boat have
advantage on
saving throws
against effects
that would knock
them out of the
boat. You have
advantage on attack rolls
when an enemy is within 5
feet of your boat.
Overpaid. Once a day for the first ten days after
you attune to the staff, you may cast the commune
spell without requiring material components to
contact Athreos.
STARLIT MANTLE
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement) —
see card
Price: 30,000-50,000 gp | high sentimentality
This cloak is a window into a starry night sky and
magic seems to bounce off it.
While wearing the cloak, you gain a +2 bonus to
saving throws against spells.
Paid. While wearing the cloak, you gain a +2
bonus to AC when targeted by spells.
Overpaid. While wearing the cloak, you can use
a reaction to share the effects of the cloak with
one creature within 5 feet of you.
STRAND OF ARASTA
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) — see
card
Price: 1,000-2,000 gp | low sentimentality
It’s said that Arasta's webs stretch from the
Underworld through the mortal world into Nyx
itself. This small strand has touched divinity and
carries echoes of it—under sunlight, it sparkles
like stars in a night sky, and at night, a faint, black
fog emanates from it.
While you have this strand wrapped around your
body, your attacks deal an extra 1d4 necrotic
damage and you regain lost hit points equal to the
necrotic damage you dealt. You have
advantage on checks to grapple
creatures.
Curse. This item is cursed if
Arasta (MOoT) is alive.
Attuning to it curses you
until Arasta dies or you’re
targeted by a remove curse
spell or similar magic. As
long as you remain cursed,
you can't discard the
strand, which sticks to your
body and seems to generate
more strands the more you
tug. Each night, you suffer
nightmares about being caught in
a massive web woven of thin, white
hair. You feel the strand vibrate around
your body as a massive, ominous body
approaches. Each day, you feel compelled to
move closer to Arasta, though you don’t know
her exact location. The nightmares intensify if you
try to escape her web, and you’re unable to take a
long rest unless you are closer to Arasta than
when you finished your last long rest.
Paid. Once a day, while you have this strand
wrapped around your body, you can use an action
to summon one Nyxborn giant spider (MM) to
fight for you. You control the spider telepathically
and it shares your initiative order. The spider
persists until it dies or until dawn the next day,
whichever occurs first.
Overpaid. With some practice you realize the
strands can be used to extend your reach. While
you have this strand wrapped around your body,
you gain 5 feet to your reach when you attack
with melee weapons, as well as when determining
your reach for opportunity attacks with them. You
must roll a d10 every time you use your additional
5 feet of reach, and if you roll a 1, you drop your
weapon.
Springleaf Drum


=== PAGE 38 ===
37
STUBBORN BOULDER
Wondrous item, uncommon
Price: 200-800 gp | high sentimentality
This boulder starts as a rock small enough to fit in
a pocket. If you use an action to speak the
command word and throw the rock to a point on
the ground within 60 feet of you, the rock
becomes a giant boulder 5 feet in diameter
weighing 4,000 pounds and immune to all
damage. The rock harmlessly pushes away
creatures occupying its space when it enlarges.
Creatures must make a DC 14 Strength check for
every attempt to move the boulder, and every
success allows them to push it up to 10 feet. On a
failure, they must succeed a DC 10 Strength check
to keep the boulder in place or it begins moving
backward.
If the boulder has been moved away from the
spot where you threw it, it attempts to roll back to
its original spot at a speed of 20 feet using the
most direct path possible but moving around
immobile obstacles. Creatures must succeed a DC
10 Strength check to stop the boulder from
moving. If the boulder moves into another
creature's space, it pushes the creature out of its
path and the creature suffers 4d6 bludgeoning
damage.
The boulder persists until the person who spoke
the command word to change the rock into a
boulder speaks the command word again to turn
the boulder back into a rock.
Paid. The boulder no longer attempts to move
around structures, instead running into them,
dealing 8d6 bludgeoning damage as long as it
remains in contact with the structure.
Overpaid. When you speak the command word,
you choose whether the boulder is 5 or 10 feet in
diameter, but all its other attributes remain the
same.
SUN SPEAR
Weapon (spear), artifact (requires attunement by a
worshiper of Heliod) — see card
Price: 200,000-500,000 gp | high sentimentality
The Sun Spear is a magic weapon. It’s said to be a
copy of Khrusor, the spear wielded by Heliod, god
of the sun, which can strike anywhere on Theros,
including the Underworld. This spear isn’t as
powerful but is still formidable in the hands of a
true believer of Heliod.
You can use a bonus action to summon the spear
into your hand as long as the spear is within 60
feet of you. With the spear in hand, you can use a
reaction to rebuff attacks rolls within 2 of your
AC. When you rebuff an attack, it deals no
damage but counts as having hit you for Divine
Retribution and Divine Accuracy.
Paid. You gain the following attributes when
using the weapon:
Divine Retribution. When you attack with the
spear, you deal an additional 2d8 radiant damage
whenever you hit a creature that hit you since
your last turn.
Divine Accuracy. When you throw the spear at a
creature that hit you since your last turn, you
automatically hit your target.
Divine Blessing. With the spear in hand, you can
use an action to target a creature within 60 feet of
you that you can see to receive Heliod's blessing,
granting them a +3 bonus to attack rolls, damage
rolls, and AC until the end of your next turn.
Overpaid. Once a day for the first ten days after
you attune to the spear, you can cast the commune
spell without requiring material components to
contact Heliod.
Destroying the Sun Spear. You can't easily
unmake a weapon blessed by the gods. There are
only two ways to destroy such a weapon: melt it
down in Purphoros' forge, which resides within
Mount Velus, or slay the god who blessed the
weapon—in this case, Heliod—to transform the
weapon into a nonmagical item that is susceptible
to all methods of destruction.
Stubborn Boulder


=== PAGE 39 ===
38


=== PAGE 40 ===
39
TABLET OF OSTRACISM
Story, common (requires attunement)
Price: none | no sentimentality
This magical tablet is already attuned to someone
who has been ostracized and is used to track the
person's exile. It’s linked with a twin tablet kept in
the polis that ostracized the person. When a polis
ostracizes someone, it gives the ostracized citizen
the tablet with the duration of the ostracism
imbued within it. Each day at dawn, if the tablet is
in the ostracized person's possession and the
person isn’t within the boundaries of the polis, the
tablet subtracts 1 day from the duration of the
ostracism. At the end of the ostracism's duration,
both tablets crack in half and the polis allows the
citizen to enter its borders again.
While carrying the tablet, the ostracized citizen
can’t re-enter the polis. Death is the penalty for an
ostracized citizen entering the polis without the
tablet.
Whoever traded this intact tablet to the Gray
Merchant is doomed to permanent exile. You
wonder what may have driven someone to give up
the opportunity to go home.
If you wish to track down the person who traded
away the tablet, the DM can craft a story about the
person or generate one by rolling on the following
tables:
P
  O
5F	- 	 P	

d3
Home
1
Akros
2
Meletis
3
Setessa
O
5F	- P	

d8
Identity
1
Poli!cian
2
Soldier
3
Shopkeeper
4
Cleric
5
Commoner
6
Philosopher
7
Thaumaturge (wizard)
8
Quiet loner
R	
  O
5
1
d6
Reason
1
Displayed too much hubris
2
Committed a crime against the city’s patron god
3
Ran afoul of a powerful person
4
Scapegoated for a natural disaster
5
Jeopardized the city’s defenses
6
Violated the city’s norms or mores
C	 L5
d4
Location
1
In the home polis
2
In another polis
3
Wandering a distant land
4
In the Underworld
R	
  AA- 	 TA	
d6
Reason
1
Wanted to return to the home polis under a
different identity
2
Planned to betray the home polis
3
Gave up on waiting out the duration of the
ostracism
4
Lost all emotional connection to the home polis
5
Was desperate for something the Gray
Merchant offered and had nothing else to trade
6
Discovered a way to be allowed to return home
without waiting out the duration of the ostracism
Paid. You know that if you find the polis that
ostracized the owner of the tablet, authorities
there can identify the tablet and the owner's
identity.
Overpaid. You receive divine inspiration that
teaches you the command word to activate the
tablet, which causes engraved text to appear on its
surface detailing the polis that ostracized the
tablet's owner, the identity of the owner, and the
reason for the ostracism.
TELESCOPE
Story, common
Price: 10 gp | no sentimentality
This telescope allows you to get a closer look at
the constellations in the night sky.
Paid. When you point the telescope at a
constellation, you learn the story behind that god
or hero.
Overpaid. You can see the stars and
constellations when you peer through the
telescope even if it’s daytime or cloudy.
Telescope


=== PAGE 41 ===
40
TENDRIL OF ARIXMETHES
Wondrous item, rare — see card
Price: 800-1,200 gp | low sentimentality
This tendril came from the mouth of a slumbering
kraken and flops around angrily. It has 60 hit
points and 17 AC. You can spend 5 minutes
stroking it softly while whispering a password to
it until it falls asleep and becomes inert. You can
then affix the tendril to any surface. When a
creature comes within 5 feet of the tendril, it must
say the password within 6 seconds or the tendril
awakens and lashes out, dealing 1d6 bludgeoning
damage if the creature fails a DC 14 Dexterity
saving throw to dodge the attack. The tendril stops
attacking when someone speaks the password
within 30 feet of it.
Paid. A creature struck by the tendril must
succeed a DC 16 Strength saving throw or
become restrained by the tentacle. The creature
can repeat the saving throw at the start of its next
turn, freeing itself on a success or remaining
restrained and suffering another 1d6 bludgeoning
damage on a failure. The tendril releases a
creature it’s restraining if someone speaks the
password within 30 feet of it. While the tendril is
restraining a creature, it can’t attack or restrain
another creature.
Overpaid. With the tendril in hand, you can use
an action to focus on the tendril and sense the
direction of Arixmethes the kraken.
THREE-HEADED COLLAR
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
— see card
Price: 450-800 gp | low sentimentality
There are three collars connected to a leash. The
collars only fasten around beasts with an
Intelligence of 6 or lower. The distance between
the collars and the length of the leash magically
change to accommodate the size of collared
beasts. One collar holds one beast unless the beast
has more than one head. Collared beasts share
senses and act as one creature, though they retain
their individual abilities and actions. In combat,
they share the same initiative order.


=== PAGE 42 ===
41
To collar a beast, you must grapple it while
holding the collar.
Paid. While you hold the leash, collared beasts
don’t attempt to escape from you. The collar
makes collared beasts non-hostile toward you but
doesn’t compel them to be friendly or obedient.
Overpaid. You have advantage on skill checks to
fasten the collar around a beast.
TRAVELER’S AMULET
Wondrous item, uncommon — see card
Price: 100-500 gp | low sentimentality
The amulet contains a 2-inch-wide crystal globe
that depicts a photorealistic diorama of a location
you have visited. While holding the amulet, you
can change the depicted location at will. The
diorama is a generic landscape scene that gives no
information about what’s present or occurring at
that location in the present day.
Paid. The amulet replaces all the material
components required for the find the path spell.
Overpaid. A creature holding the amulet can
imagine a scene up to 1 minute long, and the
amulet recreates the imagined scene as a looping,
animated diorama within the crystal globe.
TRICKSTER’S COIN
Wondrous item, common
Price: 80-200 gp | low sentimentality
This gold coin has no markings on it but is
otherwise a real gold coin worth the equivalent of
1 gp when used for trade. Once a day, anyone can
squeeze the coin twice in the span of 1 second to
activate the coin. An activated coin returns to the
hand of whoever activated it at dawn the next day.
There is no way to detect if the coin has been
activated, and the coin can’t be deactivated once
activated. Attempts to activate an already
activated coin have no effect.
Paid. The coin changes shape to bear the
markings of the most common currency that
match its value in its surrounding area.
Overpaid. The coin is now a platinum coin
worth 1 pp, with all its other properties remaining
the same, including its Paid properties.
UNDYING ASPHODEL
Wondrous item, common
Price: 1-5 cp | no sentimentality
The asphodel flowers on this sprig never wither,
fall off, or otherwise suffer aging effects,
appearing fresh as the day they were plucked.
Paid. The sprig and its flowers are immune to all
damage.
Overpaid. The flowers don’t trigger allergies.
VAPORS OF THE ORACLE
Potion, very rare — see card
Price: 4,000-12,000 gp | medium sentimentality
Yellow smoke dances within a corked
glass vial, forming the silhouettes of
creatures and landscapes. When you
inhale this potion, you fall into a
trance, becoming incapacitated for
3 minutes, and see visions of the
immediate future.
During the next 24 hours, you
may declare up to 3 visions.
Declaring a vision means you saw
the next 60 seconds during your
trance. You can experience the next
60 seconds and afterward, decide
whether you accept what happened
as reality or reset to when you
declared the vision to make
different choices. If you reset to the start of the
vision, you can't declare any more visions because
your actions have changed the future. Combat
makes time seem to rush by—if you enter
initiative order during the vision and the vision’s
remaining duration is greater than 12 seconds, the
vision’s remaining duration becomes 12 seconds.
Paid. You have resistance to nonmagical damage
while you’re incapacitated by the potion.
Overpaid. Residual vapors in your system allow
you to see an ever-changing future. You’re able to
declare up to 3 visions within 24 hours of inhaling
the vapors even if you reset to the start of a vision
and make different choices.
VASE OF TALES
Wondrous item, common
Price: 35-85 gp | low sentimentality
This clay vase stands 1 foot tall and is 8 inches in
diameter at its widest point. It weighs 3 pounds.
Paid. Every day the painting on the vase
changes to depict a scene it witnessed the
previous day. Touching the vase causes the
painting to move, animating up to 1 hour of the
scene. The DM determines what scene it depicts,
but it favors dramatic moments filled with intense
emotions. The painting is always rendered in a
style consistent with traditional Theran art.
Overpaid. While touching the vase, you can use
a bonus action to change the painting on the vase
to depict any scene it depicted in the last 5 days.
Vapors of the Oracle


=== PAGE 43 ===
42
VEIL OF FAVOR
Wondrous item, common
Price: 10-50 gp | low sentimentality
This semi-transparent white veil can be worn over
your face. When looking through the veil, you see
an undulating aura around intelligent creatures
showing the amount of favor they’ve curried with
the gods. A flat aura about one inch thick
represents the average person who is dutiful to the
gods. A sickly aura clings to those who have
offended the gods while no aura means the gods
have abandoned them and won’t answer their
pleas. Those with thick auras or an almost
overwhelming glow around them are favored by
the gods due to great acts of piety or heroism, and
they may even be chosen champions of a god.
Paid. When you focus on a single creature, you
learn which god they primarily worship.
Overpaid. You also see glows around items
which have been blessed or touched by a god and
can focus on the item to learn which god blessed
or touched it.
WARHORN OF MOGIS
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement by
a devout worshiper of Mogis) — see card
Price: 100,000-240,000 gp | high sentimentality
This warhorn is carved from the horn of a
minotaur, and Mogis only graces the most
ferocious warriors with such a magic horn.
Worshipers of Mogis (which typically include all
Theran minotaurs with rare exceptions) covet
such warhorns and go to great lengths to take one
for themselves. If they discover you possess such
a warhorn, they attack you to obtain it.
Bound by Blood. You can't end attunement to
the warhorn unless you die, lose the favor of
Mogis, or use the wish spell. A creature that kills
someone attuned to the warhorn automatically
becomes attuned to the warhorn.
Paid. When you blow the warhorn, all
worshipers of Mogis within a mile of you are
unable to attack you for the next hour and must
make a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. If they fail,
they must obey any orders you communicate to
them that they can understand for the next hour.
During this time, they cooperate with each other
to achieve your intended goal to the best of their
ability, behaving like a disciplined army unless
you explicitly order discord amongst their ranks.
They don't need to obey an order to harm
themselves. Once the effect ends, they become
immune to the warhorn's effects for the next 24
hours.
Overpaid. Once a day for the first ten days after
you attune to the warhorn, you may cast the
commune spell without requiring material
components to contact Mogis.
WHIP OF EREBOS’ AGENT
Weapon (whip), artifact (requires attunement by a
creature opposed to the undead) — see card
Price: 100,000-250,000 gp | high sentimentality
This whip was taken from an agent of Erebos and
echoes the properties of Mastix, the whip with
endless reach possessed by the god of death
himself. It has a leather handle from which hang
small ivory carvings of skulls, and the lash
twinkles with bleak and sorrowful starlight.
With the whip in hand, you sense the presence of
undead creatures when they come within 120 feet
of you. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage
rolls made against undead creatures with this
magic weapon.
Paid. You gain the following attributes when
using the weapon:
Control the Grave. You can use an action to lash
the whip against the corpse of a creature that died
within the last hour. The creature returns to life
for 2 turns with maximum hit points and the stats
it had in life. The creature shares your initiative
order but takes its turn after yours and is
considered a creature under your control. The
creature uses its full movement and actions each
turn to approach and attack a target you choose on
Whip of Erebos’ Agent


=== PAGE 44 ===
43
your turn. When the creature drops to 0 hit points
or 2 turns pass after the creature's revival, the
creature's body evaporates into black smoke and
its soul passes on to its journey to the
Underworld, leaving no corpse behind and
becoming unable to be raised from the dead.
Life Link. When you’re hit by an attack, you can
use your reaction to distribute the damage you’d
take from being hit to up to two creatures you
control instead. If the damage exceeds the
remaining hit points of the creatures you
designate, you suffer the excess damage.
No Escape. If you raise creatures from the dead
using any ability except the ones granted by this
whip, Erebos conveys his displeasure by causing
you to lose attunement to the whip. You can't
attune to the whip again unless you placate Erebos
with a suitable sacrificial offering.
Overpaid. Once a day for the first ten days after
you attune to the whip, you may cast the
commune spell without requiring material
components to contact Erebos.
Destroying the Whip of Erebos. You can't easily
unmake a weapon blessed by the gods. There are
only two ways to destroy such a weapon: melt it
down in Purphoros' forge, which resides within
Mount Velus, or slay the god who blessed the
weapon—in this case, Erebos—to transform the
weapon into a nonmagical item that is susceptible
to all methods of destruction.
WINGS OF HUBRIS
Adventuring gear, common — see card
Price: 50-100 gp | no sentimentality
These mechanical wings are inventions of the
great thinker Dalakos. While wearing these wings
on your back, you can use an action to flap your
arms to fly upward up to 30 feet. Once in the air,
the wings flap on their own using the power of the
wind, allowing you to fly forward with a speed of
60 feet. You must use an action to change
direction, hover, ascend, or descend.
The wings are destroyed if you take fire damage
while wearing them or use them to fly higher than
100 feet.
Paid. The wings have 25 hit points, which can
be restored by repairing them during a short
rest. The wings are immune to all types of
damage except fire and suffer the same
amount of fire damage as you when you’re
hit by fire damage. The wings are destroyed if
they fall to 0 hit points.
Overpaid. The wings are destroyed if you use
them to fly higher than 200 feet instead of 100
feet.
WITCHES’ EYE
Wondrous item, very rare — see card
Price: 20,000-60,000 gp | medium sentimentality
Commonly mistaken for witches, hence the
misnomer, this eye actually comes from a coven
of hags that share the eye to see the strands of
destiny. If you’re missing an eye, placing the eye
in your eye socket allows you to see using the eye.
The eye has darkvision up to 120 feet, and you
can use an action to observe a creature up to 60
feet away to see how many hit points it has.
Paid. Once a day, while holding the eye, you can
use an action to cast the scrying spell without its
material components requirement and with a DC
of 20 for the target's Wisdom saving throw.
Overpaid. The scrying spell's target's Wisdom
saving throw DC is 25 instead of 20.
XEBEC OF KRUPHIX
Wondrous item, uncommon
Price: 800-6,000 gp | low sentimentality
This model of a xebec sailing ship is intricately
detailed and quite a collector's item for fans of
such crafts.
Paid. The model grants favorable tailwinds
when brought aboard a ship, increasing the ship's
speed by 20 percent.
Overpaid. At dawn each day, the model turns by
itself to point its bow at the nearest shrine of
Kruphix, god of horizons.
Xebec of
Kruphix


=== PAGE 45 ===
44
YOKE OF CAREFUL UNBURDENING
Wondrous item, rare
Price: 2,000-12,000 gp | low sentimentality
This yoke must go on two pack animals traveling
side-by-side for its effects to work. It magically
adjusts its size to fit the creatures. Animals
wearing the yoke can move double their usual
maximum weight capacity when pulling a
carriage, cart, chariot, sled, or wagon.
Paid. While wearing the yoke, animals pulling a
carriage, cart, chariot, sled, or wagon ignore
difficult terrain.
Overpaid. While wearing the yoke, animals
pulling a carriage, cart, chariot, sled, or wagon
can move at normal speed up to 12 hours a day
without suffering exhaustion from a forced march.
ZEPHYR SADDLE
Wondrous item, rare
Price: 1,000-6,000 gp | low sentimentality
This saddle is shaped into an artistic
representation of a gust of wind. A temperate
breeze flows around you when you sit on it.
Paid. While a horse wears the saddle, the horse
gains +20 hit points, +4 AC, and +10 feet of
speed.
Overpaid. While using the saddle to ride a horse,
you gain a +4 bonus to all checks to stay on the
horse.


=== PAGE 46 ===
45
CHAPTER 3: RANDOM ROLL TABLES
T
his chapter has three sections. First, there are
the recommended roll tables for determining
the wares the Gray Merchant pulls from his
bag if you use him as described in chapter 1.
Second, there are roll tables which sort the items
in this supplement by rarity. Finally, there are
generic Magic Item loot tables similar to those in
the Dungeon Master’s Guide should you instead
wish to use the items in this supplement as loot
obtained from random monsters, treasure chests,
or dungeons.
GRAY MERCHANT ROLL TABLES
Since characters can obtain any item from the
Gray Merchant for essentially no cost, you may
wish to prevent him from presenting items of a
power level far too high for your campaign. Roll
tables are therefore provided by party level range.
Each table gives a chance at specific item types/
rarities. Once you determine the type, you then
roll on the rarity tables in the next section, “Roll
Tables by Rarity,” to select the actual item he
draws from his bag.
If you don’t want to use story or artifact items,
roll on the Common Items table any time you’re
directed to roll on a Story Items table, and roll on
the Legendary Items table instead of the Artifacts
table.
L	I	 1-2 M	5-
	
d100
Item Type
1-20
Story (commons only)
21-90
Common
91-00
Uncommon
*When rolling for 7 items, this table gives:
71% chance of at least one story item
99.9% chance of at least one common item
52% chance of at least one uncommon item
**Actual chances are higher since characters can get the Gray Merchant to
refresh inventory
L	I	 3-4 M	5-
	
d100
Item Type
1-20
Story
21-70
Common
71-97
Uncommon
98-00
Rare
*When rolling for 7 items, this table gives:
71% chance of at least one story item
99.7% chance of at least one common item
99.9% chance if not using story items
89% chance of at least one uncommon item
19% chance of at least one rare item
**Actual chances are higher since characters can get the Gray Merchant to
refresh inventory
L	I	 5-9 M	5-
	
d100
Item Type
1-10
Story
11-60
Common
61-85
Uncommon
86-99
Rare
00
Very Rare
*When rolling for 7 items, this table gives:
52% chance of at least one story item
99.2% chance of at least one common item
99.9% chance if not using story items
87% chance of at least one uncommon item
65% chance of at least one rare item
7% chance of at least one very rare item
**Actual chances are higher since characters can get the Gray Merchant to
refresh inventory
L	I	 10-14 M	5-
	
d100
Item Type
1-5
Story
6-25
Common
26-65
Uncommon
66-85
Rare
86-98
Very Rare
99
Legendary
00
Artifact
*When rolling for 7 items, this table gives:
30% chance of at least one story item
79% chance of at least one common item
87% chance if not using story items
97% chance of at least one uncommon item
79% chance of at least one rare item
62% chance of at least one very rare item
13% chance of at least one legendary item or ar!fact
7% chance of at least one ar!fact
**Actual chances are higher since characters can get the Gray Merchant to
refresh inventory
L	I	 15+ M	5-
	
d100
Item Type
1-5
Story
6-20
Common
21-55
Uncommon
56-80
Rare
81-95
Very Rare
96-99
Legendary
00
Artifact
*When rolling for 7 items, this table gives:
30% chance of at least one story item
68% chance of at least one common item
79% chance if not using story items
95% chance of at least one uncommon item
87% chance of at least one rare item
68% chance of at least one very rare item
30% chance of at least one legendary item or ar!fact
7% chance of at least one ar!fact
**Actual chances are higher since characters can get the Gray Merchant to
refresh inventory


=== PAGE 47 ===
46
ROLL TABLES BY RARITY
Note that the following items aren’t listed in these
tables despite being described in the supplement
because they aren’t intended to be available from
the Gray Merchant’s inventory: Gray Merchant’s
gold coin (common story item), Ring of Anax
(artifact ring), and Ring of Promised Reunion
(artifact ring).
S I	1
 (C11 O)
d6
Item
Page
1
Diary of Thrasios
18
2
Fragment of Misera
20
3
Iroan Pledge
25
4
Scrap of Epic Poetry
33
5
Tablet of Ostracism
39
6
Telescope
39
S I	1
d8
Item
Page
1
Arrowhead Shard
9
2
Diary of Thrasios
18
3
Fragment of Misera
20
4
Iroan Pledge
25
5
Scrap of Epic Poetry
33
6
Sigiled Starfish
34
7
Tablet of Ostracism
39
8
Telescope
39
C11 I	1
d100
Item
Page
1-4
Bidet of Thassa
15
5-8
Callaphe’s Compass
16
9-13
Cap of Authority
17
14-17
Chorus Mask
17
18-21
Dust of Nyx
18
22-25
Fragment of Anger
20
26-29
Fragment of Joy
20
30-34
Funerary Mask
22
35-39
Golden Funeral Mask of Asphodel
22
40-43
Iridescent Pearl Necklace
25
44-47
Judgy Golden Apple
25
48-51
Karametran Sickle
26
52-55
Leonin Hairbrush
26
56-59
Leonin Snare
26
60-63
Meletis Agora License
27
64-67
Mirror of Alirios
27
68-71
Quill of Ephara
29
72-75
Setessan Joke Basket
33
76-79
Sorrowful Lekythos
35
80-83
Trickster’s Coin
41
84-88
Undying Asphodel
41
89-92
Vase of Tales
41
93-96
Veil of Favor
42
97-00
Wings of Hubris
43
U511 I	1
d100
Item
Page
1-3
Akroan Rocking Horse
7
4-6
Alseid’s Gift
7
7-9
Anvilwrought Raptor
7
10-12
Aspect Icon - Deer
10
13-15
Aspect Icon - Dolphin
10
16-18
Aspect Icon - Dove
10
19-21
Aspect Icon - Horse
11
22-24
Aspect Icon - Owl
12
25-27
Aspect Icon - Pig
13
28-30
Aspect Icon - Vulture
13
31-33
Aspect Icon - Wolf
13
34-35
Astral Cornucopia
13
36-37
Blade of Hubris
15
38-40
Chapparal Grass
17
41-43
Clay Owl
17
44-46
Conspirator’s Whistle
18
47-49
Dragon Teeth
18
50-52
Euklisia of Ephara
19
53-55
Flint of Phenax
19
56-58
Floating Driftwood
20
59-61
Golden Funeral Mask of Odunos
22
62-64
Golden Funeral Masks of the Phalanx
23
65-66
Heliod’s Glory
25
67-69
Pharika’s Cure
28
70-72
Phoenix Feather
28
73-75
Prowler’s Helm
28
76-78
Satyr’s Piloi
32
79-81
Scarf of Athreos
32
82-84
Skein of Skophos
34
85-87
Soul-Guide Lantern
35
88-90
Springleaf Drum
35
91-93
Stubborn Boulder
37
94-95
Three-Headed Collar
40
96-98
Traveler’s Amulet
41
99-00
Xebec of Kruphix
43
Vase of Tales


=== PAGE 48 ===
47
R	 I	1
d100
Item
Page
1-5
Adventurer’s Podium
7
6-11
Archon Cape
9
12-16
Aspect Icon - Donkey
10
17-21
Aspect Icon - Peacock
12
22-26
Aspect Icon - Swan
13
27-31
Aspect Icon - Tortoise
13
32-36
Bountiful Lekythos
15
37-41
Crown of Atris
18
42-46
Flamecast Wheel
19
47-51
Fruit of Tizerus
21
52-56
Laurel Wreath
26
57-62
Lightning Diadem
26
63-67
Mirror Shield
27
68-73
Pharika’s Libation Jar
28
74-79
Potion of Paradox
28
80-84
Strand of Arasta
36
85-90
Tendril of Arixmethes
40
91-95
Yoke of Careful Unburdening
44
96-00
Zephyr Saddle
44
V	 R	 I	1
d100
Item
Page
1-6
Archon Armor
9
7-12
Aspect Icon - Gorgon
11
13-18
Aspect Icon - Hydra
11
19-25
Aspect Icon - Lamprey
11
26-31
Aspect Icon - Manticore
12
32-37
Entrancing Lyre
19
38-43
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Pseudamma
23
44-49
Nyx Lotus
27
50-55
Oreskos Heresy
28
56-61
Rod of Gallia
31
62-67
Rod of Keranos
31
68-74
Sacrificial Knife
32
75-81
Setessan Lasso
34
82-87
Starlit Mantle
36
88-94
Vapors of the Oracle
41
95-00
Witches’ Eye
43
L		- I	1
d6
Item
Page
1
Aspect Icon - Mongoose
12
2
Fleetfeather Sandals
19
3
Golden Funeral Mask of the Gray
Merchant
22
4
Pyxis of Pandemonium
29
5
Staff of Athreos
35
6
Warhorn of Mogis
42
A5
d100
Item
Page
1-14
Bident of Thassa’s Beloved
14
15-28
Bow of Nylea’s Hunter
15
29-42
Hammer of the Forged of Purphoros
24
43-57
Ring of Cymede
30
58-72
Rings of Kynaios and Tiro
31
73-86
Sun Spear
37
87-00
Whip of Erebos’ Agent
42


=== PAGE 49 ===
48
RANDOM REWARD TABLES
The following Magic Item tables are intended to
function like the Random Magic Items tables of
the same names in the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
They can be used when providing random rewards
for killing powerful monsters, completing quests,
conquering dungeons, or otherwise finding
treasure.
Each table comes with footnotes explaining the
philosophy behind its contents so you can better
judge whether it’s an appropriate reward table for
any given situation.
Unless otherwise specified with keywords base
or Overpaid, we recommend that items obtained
through these tables come with their base and
Paid properties. Paid and Overpaid properties
always override base and Paid properties
respectively if the two descriptions conflict.
M5 I	1 TA	 A
d100
Item
Page
1-6
Zephyr Saddle (base)
44
7-10
Alseid’s Gift (base)
7
11-20
Dust of Nyx (base)
18
21-30
Fragment of Anger
20
31-40
Fragment of Joy
20
41-50
Gray Merchant’s gold coin
(replace with Golden Funeral Mask of
Asphodel if not using the Gray
Merchant)
23
(or
22)
51-57
Iridescent Pearl Necklace
25
58-65
Meletis Agora License
27
65-74
Pharika’s Cure
28
75-79
Archon Cape (base, doesn’t require
attunement)
9
80-89
Setessan Joke Basket
33
90-00
Undying Asphodel
41
This table contains limited use items or items that don’t exhibit strong
magical effects. These are essen!ally items that provide flavor but are
unlikely to impact the mechanics of the game.
M5 I	1 TA	 B
d100
Item
Page
1-5
Pharika’s Cure
28
6-9
Rod of Gallia (base)
31
10-15
Chapparal Grass
17
16-20
Dragon Teeth
18
21-24
Bidet of Thassa
15
25-29
Cap of Authority
17
30-34
Chorus Mask
17
35-39
Funerary Mask
22
40-42
Judgy Golden Apple
25
43-46
Karametran Sickle
26
47-50
Leonin Hairbrush
26
51-53
Leonin Snare
26
54-57
Meletis Agora License
27
58-61
Mirror of Alirios
27
d100
Item
Page
62-65
Callaphe’s Compass
16
66-69
Quill of Ephara
29
70-73
Setessan Joke Basket (Overpaid)
33
74-77
Sorrowful Lekythos
35
78-81
Telescope
39
82-84
Trickster’s Coin
41
85-87
Vase of Tales
41
88-90
Veil of Favor
42
91
Wings of Hubris
43
92
Prowler’s Helm
28
93
Alseid’s Gift
7
94
Astral Cornucopia
13
95
Conspirator’s Whistle
18
96
Euklisia of Ephara
19
97
Scarf of Athreos
32
98
Traveler’s Amulet
41
99
Xebec of Kruphix
43
00
Phoenix Feather
28
This table contains limited use items, adventuring gear, or items with
minor magical effects that are unlikely to affect combat situa!ons.
M5 I	1 TA	 C
d100
Item
Page
1-3
Pharika’s Cure (Overpaid)
28
4-6
Potion of Paradox (Overpaid)
28
7-11
Dust of Nyx
18
12-15
Callaphe’s Compass (Overpaid)
16
16-19
Chapparal Grass (Overpaid)
17
20-25
Chorus Mask (Overpaid)
17
26-30
Funerary Mask (Overpaid)
22
31-35
Iridescent Pearl Necklace (Overpaid)
25
36-39
Mirror of Alirios (Overpaid)
27
40-44
Quill of Ephara (Overpaid)
29
45-48
Sorrowful Lekythos (Overpaid)
35
49-52
Trickster’s Coin (Overpaid)
41
53-56
Vase of Tales (Overpaid)
41
57-60
Veil of Favor (Overpaid)
42
61-63
Wings of Hubris (Overpaid)
43
64-67
Aspect Icon - Deer (base)
10
68-71
Aspect Icon - Dolphin (base)
10
72-75
Aspect Icon - Dove (base)
10
76-79
Aspect Icon - Horse (base)
11
80-83
Aspect Icon - Owl (base)
12
84-87
Aspect Icon - Pig (base)
13
88-90
Aspect Icon - Vulture (base)
13
91-92
Aspect Icon - Wolf (base)
13
93
Clay Owl
17
94
Flint of Phenax
19
95
Floating Driftwood
29
96
Golden Funeral Mask of Odunos
22
97
Golden Funeral Masks of the Phalanx
23
98
Heliod’s Glory
25
99
Stubborn Boulder
37
00
Akroan Rocking Horse
7
This table contains upgraded versions of many common items and slightly
more powerful uncommons le out of table B.


=== PAGE 50 ===
49
M5 I	1 TA	 D
d100
Item
Page
1
Blade of Hubris
15
2-7
Aspect Icon - Deer
10
8-13
Aspect Icon - Dolphin
10
14-19
Aspect Icon - Dove
10
20-25
Aspect Icon - Owl
12
26-31
Bountiful Lekythos (base)
15
32-37
Conspirator’s Whistle (Overpaid)
18
38-43
Dragon Teeth
18
44-49
Euklisia of Ephara (Overpaid)
19
50-55
Flint of Phenax (Overpaid)
19
56-60
Floating Driftwood (Overpaid)
20
60-64
Phoenix Feather
28
65-69
Prowler’s Helm
28
70-74
Satyr’s Piloi
32
75-79
Scarf of Athreos (Overpaid)
32
80-84
Skein of Skophos
34
85-90
Springleaf Drum (base)
35
91-92
Stubborn Boulder
37
93-95
Three-Headed Collar
40
96-98
Traveler’s Amulet (Overpaid)
41
99-00
Xebec of Kruphix (Overpaid)
43
This table contains the less powerful uncommon items.
M5 I	1 TA	 E
d100
Item
Page
1-5
Phoenix Feather (Overpaid)
28
6-9
Akroan Rocking Horse (Overpaid)
7
10-14
Anvilwrought Raptor
7
15-19
Aspect Icon - Horse
11
20-24
Aspect Icon - Pig
13
25-29
Aspect Icon Vulture
13
30-34
Aspect Icon - Wolf
13
35-39
Aspect Icon - Peacock (base)
12
40-44
Aspect Icon - Swan (base)
13
45-49
Aspect Icon - Tortoise (base)
13
50-55
Clay Owl (Overpaid)
17
56-60
Dragon Teeth (Overpaid)
18
61-64
Golden Funeral Masks of the Phalanx
(Overpaid)
23
65-68
Heliod’s Glory (Overpaid)
25
69-72
Leonin Snare (Overpaid)
26
73-75
Prowler’s Helm (Overpaid)
28
76-78
Satyr’s Piloi (Overpaid)
32
79-81
Skein of Skophos (Overpaid)
34
82-84
Springleaf Drum
35
85-87
Stubborn Boulder (Overpaid)
37
88-89
Flamecast Wheel (base)
19
90-91
Bountiful Lekythos
15
92-93
Lightning Diadem (base)
26
94-95
Mirror Shield (base)
27
96-97
Tendril of Arixmethes (base)
40
98-99
Yoke of Careful Unburdening (base)
44
00
Pharika’s Libation Jar (base)
28
This table contains the most powerful uncommon items and some
downgraded rares.
M5 I	1 TA	 F
d100
Item
Page
1
Blade of Hubris
15
2-3
Akroan Rocking Horse (Overpaid)
7
4-5
Alseid’s Gift (Overpaid)
7
6-7
Dragon Teeth (Overpaid)
18
8-9
Funerary Mask (Overpaid)
22
10-11
Quill of Ephara (Overpaid)
29
12-13
Trickster’s Coin
41
14-15
Witches’ Eye (base)
43
16-17
Aspect Icon (Overpaid) (roll d8)
1
Deer
10
2
Dolphin
10
3
Dove
10
4
Horse
11
5
Owl
12
6
Pig
13
7
Vulture
13
8
Wolf
13
18-19
Astral Cornucopia (Overpaid)
13
19-20
Clay Owl (Overpaid)
17
21-23
Conspirator’s Whistle (Overpaid)
18
24-27
Flint of Phenax (Overpaid)
19
28-31
Floating Driftwood (Overpaid)
20
32-35
Stubborn Boulder (Overpaid)
37
36-38
Strand of Arasta
36
39-41
Archon Armor (base)
9
42-44
Archon Cape
9
45-47
Aspect Icon - Donkey (base)
10
48-50
Aspect Icon - Peacock
12
51-53
Aspect Icon - Swan
13
54-56
Aspect Icon - Tortoise
13
57-59
Wings of Hubris (Overpaid)
43
60-61
Bountiful Lekythos
15
62-63
Crown of Atris (base)
18
64-65
Flamecast Wheel
19
66-67
Fruit of Tizerus
21
68-69
Laurel Wreath
26
70-71
Leonin Snare (Overpaid)
26
72-73
Lightning Diadem
26
74-75
Mirror Shield
27
76-77
Potion of Paradox (Overpaid)
28
78-79
Phoenix Feather (Overpaid)
28
80-81
Prowler’s Helm (Overpaid)
28
82-83
Satyr’s Piloi (Overpaid)
32
84-85
Skein of Skophos (Overpaid)
34
86-87
Tendril of Arixmethes
40
88-89
Three-Headed Collar (Overpaid)
40
90-91
Yoke of Careful Unburdening
44
92-93
Zephyr Saddle
44
94-95
Pharika’s Libation Jar
28
96
Strand of Arasta (Overpaid)
36
97
Crown of Atris (Overpaid)
18
98
Zephyr Saddle (Overpaid)
44
99
Adventurer’s Podium
7
00
Bountiful Lekythos (Overpaid)
15
This table is a grab bag of func!onal commons, uncommons, and rares.


=== PAGE 51 ===
50
M5 I	1 TA	 G
d100
Item
Page
1
Strand of Arasta (Overpaid)
36
2-6
Aspect Icons (roll d10)
1
Wolf (Overpaid)
13
2
Vulture (Overpaid)
13
3
Donkey
10
4
Peacock (Overpaid)
12
5
Swan (Overpaid)
13
6
Tortoise (Overpaid)
13
7
Gorgon (base)
11
8
Hydra (base)
11
9
Lamprey (base)
11
0
Manticore (base)
12
7
Pharika’s Cure (Overpaid)
28
8
Vapors of the Oracle (base)
41
9
Potion of Paradox (Overpaid)
28
10
Callaphe’s Compass (Overpaid)
16
11
Funerary Mask (Overpaid)
22
12
Golden Funeral Mask of Asphodel
(Overpaid)
22
13
Leonin Hairbrush (Overpaid)
26
14
Leonin Snare (Overpaid)
26
15
Meletis Agora License
27
16
Mirror of Alirios (Overpaid)
27
17
Quill of Ephara (Overpaid)
29
18
Trickster’s Coin (Overpaid)
41
19
Vase of Tales (Overpaid)
41
20
Wings of Hubris (Overpaid)
43
21
Akroan Rocking Horse
7
22
Akroan Rocking Horse (Overpaid)
7
23
Alseid’s Gift (Overpaid)
7
24
Astral Cornucopia (Overpaid)
13
25
Chapparal Grass (Overpaid)
17
26
Aspect Icon - Horse (Overpaid)
11
27
Clay Owl (Overpaid)
17
28
Springleaf Drum
35
29
Conspirator’s Whistle (Overpaid)
18
30
Dragon Teeth
18
31
Dragon Teeth (Overpaid)
18
32
Flint of Phenax (Overpaid)
19
33
Floating Driftwood (Overpaid)
20
34
Golden Funeral Mask of Odunos
(Overpaid)
22
35
Golden Funeral Masks of the Phalanx
(Overpaid)
23
36
Heliod’s Glory (Overpaid)
25
37
Phoenix Feather
28
38
Phoenix Feather (Overpaid)
28
39
Prowler’s Helm (Overpaid)
28
40
Satyr’s Piloi (Overpaid)
32
41
Scarf of Athreos (Overpaid)
32
42
Skein of Skophos (Overpaid)
34
43
Soul-Guide Lantern (Overpaid)
35
44
Springleaf Drum (Overpaid)
35
45
Stubborn Boulder (Overpaid)
37
46
Three-Headed Collar (Overpaid)
40
47
Yoke of Careful Unburdening
44
d100
Item
Page
48
Zephyr Saddle
44
49
Flamecast Wheel
19
50
Fruit of Tizerus
21
51
Adventurer’s Podium
7
52
Archon Cape (Overpaid)
9
53
Crown of Atris
18
54
Flamecast Wheel (Overpaid)
19
55
Laurel Wreath
26
56
Lightning Diadem
26
57
Mirror Shield
27
58
Tendril of Arixmethes
40
59
Yoke of Careful Unburdening
(Overpaid)
44
60
Zephyr Saddle (Overpaid)
44
61
Pharika’s Libation Jar (Overpaid)
28
62
Adventurers’ Podium (Overpaid)
7
63
Archon Armor
9
64
Entrancing Lyre (base)
19
65
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Pseudamma (base)
23
66
Nyx Lotus (base)
27
67-68
Oreskos Heresy
28
69
Rod of Gallia
31
70
Rod of Keranos (base)
31
71-72
Sacrificial Knife
32
73
Setessan Lasso (base)
34
74
Starlit Mantle (base)
36
75
Aspect Icon - Gorgon
11
76
Aspect Icon - Hydra
11
77
Aspect Icon - Lamprey
11
78
Aspect Icon - Manticore
12
79
Entrancing Lyre
19
80
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Pseudamma
23
81
Setessan Lasso
34
82
Starlit Mantle
36
83
Vapors of the Oracle
41
84-85
Witches’ Eye
43
86
Nyx Lotus
27
87
Crown of Atris (Overpaid)
18
88
Lightning Diadem (Overpaid)
26
89
Mirror Shield (Overpaid)
27
90
Vapors of the Oracle (Overpaid)
41
91
Pyxis of Pandemonium
29
92
Setessan Lasso (Overpaid)
34
93
Starlit Mantle (Overpaid)
36
94
Staff of Athreos (base)
35
95
Bident of Thassa’s Beloved (base)
14
96
Bow of Nylea’s Hunter (base)
15
97
Hammer of the Forged of Purphoros
(base)
24
98
Sun Spear (base)
37
99
Whip of Erebos’ Agent (base)
42
00
Golden Funeral Mask of the Gray
Merchant (base)
22
This table is a mix of all rari!es.


=== PAGE 52 ===
51
M5 I	1 TA	 H
d100
Item
Page
1
Strand of Arasta (Overpaid)
36
2-4
Anvilwrought Raptor (Overpaid)
7
5-7
Golden Funeral Masks of the Phalanx
(Overpaid)
23
8-10
Springleaf Drum (Overpaid)
35
11-13
Stubborn Boulder (Overpaid)
37
14-16
Vapors of the Oracle (Overpaid)
41
17-19
Adventurers’ Podium (Overpaid)
7
20-22
Aspect Icon - Donkey (Overpaid)
10
23-25
Bountiful Lekythos (Overpaid)
15
26-28
Crown of Atris (Overpaid)
18
29-31
Flamecast Wheel (Overpaid)
19
32-34
Fruit of Tizerus (Overpaid)
21
35-37
Lightning Diadem (Overpaid)
26
38-40
Mirror Shield (Overpaid)
27
41-42
Pharika’s Libation Jar (Overpaid)
28
43-44
Tendril of Arixmethes
40
45-46
Yoke of Careful Unburdening
(Overpaid)
44
47-48
Archon Armor (Overpaid)
9
49-50
Aspect Icon - Gorgon (Overpaid)
11
51-52
Aspect Icon - Hydra (Overpaid)
11
53-54
Aspect Icon - Lamprey (Overpaid)
11
55-56
Aspect Icon - Manticore (Overpaid)
12
57-58
Entrancing Lyre (Overpaid)
19
59-60
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Pseudamma
23
61-62
Nyx Lotus (Overpaid)
27
63-64
Oreskos Heresy (Overpaid)
28
65-66
Rod of Gallia (Overpaid)
31
67-68
Rod of Keranos
31
69-70
Sacrificial Knife
32
71-72
Setessan Lasso (Overpaid)
34
73-74
Starlit Mantle (Overpaid)
36
75-76
Witches’ Eye (Overpaid)
43
77-78
Pyxis of Pandemonium
29
79-80
Fleetfeather Sandals
19
81-82
Staff of Athreos
35
83-84
Warhorn of Mogis
42
85-86
Aspect Icon - Mongoose
12
87-88
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Pseudamma (Overpaid)
23
89-90
Golden Funeral Mask of the Gray
Merchant (base)
22
91
Bident of Thassa’s Beloved
14
92
Bow of Nylea’s Hunter
15
93
Hammer of the Forged of Purphoros
24
94
Sun Spear
37
95
Whip of Erebos’ Agent
42
96
Golden Funeral Mask of the Gray
Merchant
22
97
Aspect Icon - Mongoose
12
98
Ring of Cymede
30
99
Ring of Anax
29
00
Rings of Kynaios and Tiro
31
This table has high level items, including most legendaries and ar!facts.
M5 I	1 TA	 I
d100
Item
Page
1-4
Vapors of the Oracle (Overpaid)
41
5-8
Fruit of Tizerus (Overpaid)
21
9-11
Lightning Diadem (Overpaid)
26
12-15
Mirror Shield (Overpaid)
27
16-19
Pharika’s Libation Jar (Overpaid)
28
20-24
Aspect Icon - Gorgon (Overpaid)
11
25-29
Aspect Icon - Hydra (Overpaid)
11
30-34
Aspect Icon - Lamprey (Overpaid)
11
35-39
Aspect Icon - Manticore (Overpaid)
12
40-43
Entrancing Lyre (Overpaid)
19
44-47
Golden Funeral Mask of the
Pseudamma (Overpaid)
23
48-52
Nyx Lotus (Overpaid)
27
53-57
Oreskos Heresy (Overpaid)
28
58-61
Rod of Gallia (Overpaid)
31
62-65
Rod of Keranos
31
66-70
Sacrificial Knife
32
71-75
Setessan Lasso (Overpaid)
34
76-79
Starlit Mantle (Overpaid)
36
80-81
Aspect Icon - Mongoose (Overpaid)
12
82-83
Fleetfeather Sandals (Overpaid)
19
84-85
Golden Funeral Mask of the Gray
Merchant
22
86-87
Pyxis of Pandemonium
29
88-89
Staff of Athreos
35
90-91
Warhorn of Mogis
41
92
Bident of Thassa’s Beloved
14
93
Bow of Nylea’s Hunter
15
94
Hammer of the Forged of Purphoros
24
95
Sun Spear
37
96
Whip of Erebos’ Agent
42
97
Rings of Kynaios and Tiro (Overpaid)
31
98
Ring of Anax (Overpaid)
29
99
Ring of Cymede (Overpaid)
30
00
Ring of Promised Reunion
30
This table contains the most powerful items in the supplement.


=== PAGE 53 ===
52
CREDITS
Lead Writer: Grady Wang
Writer & Editor: Theo Thourson
Cover Arst: Victor Tan
Interior Arst & Layout Designer: Grady Wang
Magic: The Gathering Consultant: Cassie Rose
Footer Graphic Designer: penji.co (Billie Cordova)
Gallant Goblin Logo Arsts: penji.co (mascot by Kenny
Samson, typography by Luigi Nablo)
penji.co is a subscrip!on graphic design service that has
served us well when we need a middle ground between
free art resources and a commissioned ar!st. You can try
one month with 15% off by entering our promo code
27HIIFRTA1261503 or clicking the links above. We receive
a referral bonus if you sign up with our code.
Special thanks to Ashley Warren for her mentorship and
advice on produc!vity, crea!vity, and the wild world of
wri!ng for TTRPGs. Sa!ne Phoenix for providing
developmental consul!ng. You can join both on Patreon
and benefit from the wisdom they share to their backers
as well.
Royalty-free art resources used from the following sites:
pexels.com, pixabay.com, share.substance3d.com,
textures.com, turbosquid.com
“Watercolor Spla.ers” brushes from brusheezy.com
licensed under Crea!ve Commons BY-ND
Party vector created by macrovector from freepik.com
h.ps://www.freepik.com/free-photos-vectors/party
ABOUT THE AUTHORS
GRADY WANG and THEO
THOURSON are co-founders
of THE GALLANT GOBLIN,
which began as a YouTube
review channel for TTRPG
miniatures.
We currently live in
Bakersfield, California with
our family of rescue cats
and are hard at work
creating content to help you
make the most of your
TTRPG gaming experience. We’d love to hear
from you about this supplement, how you used it
in your game, or anything else that comes to mind!
Join us on:
YouTube
youtube.com/thegallantgoblin
Twitter
@gallantgoblin
Facebook
facebook.com/thegallantgoblin
Instagram
@thegallantgoblin
Our website gallantgoblin.com
Did you enjoy The Gray
Merchant of Asphodel? If so,
check out our other DMs
Guild content by searching for
author: The Gallant Goblin!
Check back periodically for
new adventures coming your
way!
Looking for cute t-shirts or
other merchandise? Support
the creation of future content,
including free releases, by
checking out our burgeoning
new store page on
Redbubble!
ON THE COVER
The eponymous Gray Merchant gives a slain hydra a
funeral, slathering clay on its heads to create funeral
masks. Why would the Gray Merchant do this? Why
does the Gray Merchant do anything?
The cover art is intended as a followup to the events
depicted on both the normal and collector edition
covers of Mythic Odysseys of Theros.
Disclaimer: The Gallant Goblin isn’t responsible for accidents or injuries incurred by aempts to cast plane shi or ignite your Planeswalker spark in order to
reach Theros. If you haven’t yet experienced a world filled with omnipotent beings who send you on adventures and then strike you down on a whim when
you become too powerful, we ask: what version of D&D are you playing?


=== PAGE 54 ===
53
The Gray Merchant of Asphodel is a
companion to the Dungeons &
Dragons sourcebook Mythic
Odysseys of Theros. Containing over
100 new items inspired by Greek
mythology and cards from the Theros
setting of Magic: The Gathering,
it’ll bring this new setting to life with
mysterious items steeped in lore.
Add the fan-favorite Gray Merchant as
a wandering trader, perhaps divinely
touched, who can be a vendor of these
new items and also the source of
intriguing new stories and adventures.
With beautiful art, creative design, and
new mechanics, this is one supplement
you won’t want to miss. Wow your
players by bringing even more Magic
to your table!
GallantGoblin.com


